



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                             4 July 2026
Expires: 5 January 2027


                OAuth Identity Assertion Trust Framework
          draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-assertion-framework-latest

Abstract

   Issuer authentication alone does not prove an OAuth authorization
   server's authority over the subject namespace its identity assertions
   claim.  A federated authorization server can mint an identity
   assertion naming any email domain; federation membership establishes
   that the server is a recognized member of an ecosystem, not that the
   server is entitled to assert about subjects in any particular
   namespace.  Nothing in OAuth today lets a namespace owner declare
   which authorization servers are authorized to assert identities in
   its namespace.

   This document defines an Identity Assertion Trust Framework with two
   parts.  First, an Authority Delegation Model: an abstract pattern
   (Authority Holder, Delegate, Delegation Artifact, Validator) with
   independent trust-evaluation categories, a cross-category combination
   rule, and a lookup-state taxonomy that profiles instantiate.  Second,
   the Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy: a JSON policy document
   that a Resource Authorization Server publishes to declare which trust
   methods it requires of an Assertion Issuer, including issuer-
   authentication methods (such as OpenID Federation) and subject-
   namespace authorization methods defined by separate profiles.

   The Domain-Authorized Issuer Trust Method is defined separately as
   one subject-namespace authorization profile usable by this framework.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-id-assertion-
   framework.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 5 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Minimal Deployment
     1.2.  Trust Evaluation Categories
     1.3.  Motivating Use Cases
     1.4.  Relationship to Existing Mechanisms
     1.5.  Documents in the Family
     1.6.  Scope
     1.7.  Conventions
   2.  Terminology
   3.  Authority Delegation Model
     3.1.  Pattern Overview
     3.2.  Independent Trust Evaluation Categories
       3.2.1.  Cross-Category Combination Rule
       3.2.2.  Multiple Authority Sources Within a Category
     3.3.  Open-World Delegation and Bounded Transitivity
     3.4.  Lookup States and Fail-Closed
       3.4.1.  Lookup States
       3.4.2.  Fail-Closed Requirements
   4.  Trust Policy
     4.1.  Metadata Publication
     4.2.  Trust Policy Document
       4.2.1.  Members
     4.3.  Trust Methods
       4.3.1.  Trust Method Object Structure
       4.3.2.  Trust Method Categories
       4.3.3.  Requirements on Trust Method Specifications
       4.3.4.  Issuer Authentication Methods
       4.3.5.  Subject Namespace Authorization Methods
       4.3.6.  Worked Example: OpenID Federation + DAI
     4.4.  Subject Authority Determination
       4.4.1.  Public Suffix List Versioning
       4.4.2.  Subdomain Authority
     4.5.  Signed Policy Metadata
     4.6.  Critical Members
   5.  Trust Policy Processing
     5.1.  Client Processing
     5.2.  Resource Authorization Server Processing
   6.  Grant Profile and Token Bindings
     6.1.  ID-JAG
     6.2.  Generic JWT-Bearer Assertion Grant
   7.  Security Considerations
     7.1.  Alignment with OAuth Security BCP
     7.2.  Unverified Claim Exploitation
     7.3.  Applicability Bypass
     7.4.  Authority Source Compromise
     7.5.  Transitive Authorization is Bounded
     7.6.  Scope of Namespace Authorization
     7.7.  Per-Assertion Revocation Is Out of Scope
     7.8.  Policy Document Integrity
     7.9.  Shared Infrastructure and Hosted Well-Known Paths
     7.10. Downgrade Attacks
     7.11. Trust Policy Caching
     7.12. Observability
   8.  Privacy Considerations
   9.  Internationalization Considerations
   10. IANA Considerations
     10.1.  Trust Policy Registrations
       10.1.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry
       10.1.2.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registry
       10.1.3.  Well-Known URI for Trust Policy
       10.1.4.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Method Categories
               Registry
       10.1.5.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Methods Registry
       10.1.6.  Trust Policy Members Registry
     10.2.  Subject Authority Extraction Procedures Registry
     10.3.  Media Type Registrations
   11. References
     11.1.  Normative References
     11.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  Design Rationale
     A.1.  Relationship to OpenID Federation
     A.2.  Why Bounded-Depth-1 Namespace Authorization
   Appendix B.  Future Extensions
     B.1.  Additional Subject Identifier Formats
     B.2.  Presented Delegation Credentials
     B.3.  Critical Directives for the DNS Record Form
     B.4.  Actor Identity Trust Evaluation
     B.5.  Trust Policy Discovery
   Appendix C.  Frequently Asked Questions
   Appendix D.  Agent Platform IdP Walkthrough
   Appendix E.  OpenID Federation Walkthrough
   Appendix F.  Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   OAuth assertion-based authorization grants [RFC7521] [RFC7523] allow
   identity-bearing assertions issued by one authorization server to be
   presented to another.  The Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant
   (ID-JAG) [ID-JAG] is one such profile, and the cross-domain delivery
   of such assertions is specified in
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining].  Those documents define how an
   assertion is constructed, presented, and consumed; they do not define
   whether the Resource Authorization Server should accept the issuer in
   the first place.  The Resource Authorization Server needs to decide
   whether the issuer of an identity assertion is acceptable for subject
   resolution, account linking, or delegated access, and base specs
   leave that decision to local policy.

   In many deployments the set of acceptable Assertion Issuers cannot be
   enumerated in advance.  It may be large, dynamic, or governed by
   external trust frameworks.  A static issuer allowlist also cannot
   express the conditions under which an Assertion Issuer is acceptable:
   for example, whether the Assertion Issuer is a member of a recognized
   federation, or whether the Assertion Issuer has authority for the
   subject namespace being asserted.

   This is an open-world issuer-trust problem: the Resource
   Authorization Server may receive identity assertions from issuers
   that were not individually configured in advance, but whose
   acceptability can be evaluated from published evidence at request
   time.  The purpose of this framework is not to remove policy from the
   Resource Authorization Server, but to give it a standard way to
   express which evidence it requires and how that evidence is
   evaluated.

   This document defines an Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy that
   a Resource Authorization Server publishes to describe its trust
   criteria.  The Resource Authorization Server does not say "these are
   all the Assertion Issuers I trust"; it says "these are the conditions
   an Assertion Issuer must satisfy."  Conditions are evaluated by
   validating concrete evidence (a federation trust chain or a domain-
   authorized issuer record) when an assertion is presented.

   This document defines the Authority Delegation Model (Section 3) and
   uses it to profile OAuth identity assertions.  It is consumed by
   [DAI], which defines one Subject-Authority publication mechanism.
   The two documents together are described in Section 1.5.  The
   assertion-bearer grant and chaining mechanics of [ID-JAG] and
   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining] remain unchanged; this document
   adds only the issuer-trust evaluation layer.

1.1.  Minimal Deployment

   The smallest deployment has three moving parts:

   1.  A Resource Authorization Server publishes a Trust Policy
       (Section 4.2) saying which issuer-trust evidence it requires.

   2.  A Subject Authority publishes a DAI policy ([DAI]) saying which
       Assertion Issuers it authorizes for its namespace.

   3.  At the token endpoint, the Resource Authorization Server
       validates the assertion and requires one successful Trust Method
       in each applicable trust-evaluation category.

   For the common case, the Resource Authorization Server lists
   domain_authorized_issuer; the Subject Authority publishes a DNS TXT
   record at _oauth-issuer-policy.{domain}; and the Resource
   Authorization Server checks that the assertion's iss appears in that
   policy for the asserted subject namespace.

1.2.  Trust Evaluation Categories

   This document defines two independent trust-evaluation categories for
   OAuth identity assertions (Section 3.2):

   *  *issuer_authentication* is the Authenticity category.  It asks: is
      the JWT iss claim a recognized signer?

   *  *subject_namespace_authorization* is the Delegation Authority
      category.  It asks: has the namespace owner authorized this issuer
      to assert about subjects in its namespace?

   Each Trust Method belongs to one or more of these categories, and
   evidence is required from each applicable category (Section 3.2.1).

1.3.  Motivating Use Cases

   Deployments where the gap between issuer authentication and namespace
   authorization has practical consequences include:

   *  Workforce SSO into multi-vendor SaaS: per-customer bilateral
      issuer configuration, with no wire-format check that the
      configured Assertion Issuer is the one the customer authorizes.

   *  AI agent platforms acting across tool boundaries: the tool needs
      to know the platform is entitled to assert about users in the
      customer's namespace (Appendix D).

   *  B2B integrations carrying end-user identity: today these either
      accept any authenticated Assertion Issuer or maintain manual
      allowlists.

   *  Shared-issuer multi-tenant Identity Providers: the customer's
      choice of authorized tenant becomes observable on the wire ([DAI]
      §Single-Issuer Multi-Tenant Identity Providers) rather than
      implicit.

   Today's alternatives are bilateral OAuth configuration, federation
   membership treated incorrectly as a proxy for namespace authority, or
   implicit trust in tenant-domain bindings; this document provides a
   wire-format alternative.

1.4.  Relationship to Existing Mechanisms

   This policy is complementary to OpenID Federation: OpenID Federation
   can authenticate that an issuer belongs to a trusted ecosystem, while
   the Domain-Authorized Issuer Trust Method lets the namespace owner
   say which issuers may assert about subjects in that namespace.  This
   document also follows existing DNS authority-publication patterns
   such as CAA, MTA-STS, SPF, DKIM, and the Email Verification Protocol.
   Background and positioning details are in Appendix A.1 and [DAI]
   §Following Existing DNS Authority Patterns.

   This framework is distinct from issuer _discovery_ mechanisms such as
   WebFinger [RFC7033] and OpenID Connect Discovery [OIDC-DISCOVERY],
   which answer "given a user identifier, which issuer should a client
   use?" before authentication.  This framework answers the verifier-
   side question "may this issuer, having already produced an assertion,
   be trusted for this subject's namespace?"  Its answer is published
   per namespace, expresses authorization rather than routing, and is
   consumed at verification time.  See [DAI] §Following Existing DNS
   Authority Patterns.

1.5.  Documents in the Family

   This document and [DAI] form a two-document set:

   *  *This document*: the Authority Delegation Model (Section 3) and
      the Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy (Section 4.2) published
      by a Resource Authorization Server, plus the Trust Method
      machinery, OAuth grant profile bindings, and the Subject Authority
      Determination concept.

   *  *[DAI]*: the OAuth Domain-Authorized Issuer Trust Method, defining
      the domain_authorized_issuer Trust Method and the Issuer
      Authorization Policy wire format it consumes.

   This document does not define the Issuer Authorization Policy wire
   format; that lives in [DAI].  This document defines what an Assertion
   Issuer must satisfy to be accepted; DAI defines one class of evidence
   supplying that satisfaction.

1.6.  Scope

   The scope of this document is:

   *  The Authority Delegation Model (Section 3): vocabulary, trust-
      evaluation categories, combination rule, lookup states, and the
      bounded-transitivity property profiles inherit.

   *  The Trust Policy document (Section 4.2).

   *  The Trust Method machinery (categories, registry).

   *  The Subject Authority Determination concept and registry.

   *  The OAuth grant-profile bindings.

   Concrete publication mechanisms for specific Trust Methods are out of
   scope and live in dedicated specifications such as [DAI].

   The Authority Delegation Model accommodates attribute authorities
   whose authority is not a namespace owner (government-issued
   credentials, professional certifications, employment attestations,
   decentralized credentials).  This document does not register Trust
   Methods for attribute attestation; implementers needing such
   evaluation should look to W3C Verifiable Credentials, OpenID for
   Verifiable Credentials, and domain-specific frameworks.  Where their
   attestations are conveyed as OAuth identity assertions whose subject
   is namespace-bound, this document's issuer-trust evaluation applies
   regardless of the attribute-attestation layer beneath it.

   The email Subject Identifier extraction registered in this document
   is user-identity-oriented.  The Authority Delegation Model
   (Section 3) supports any Subject Identifier format with a registered
   extraction procedure; identity chaining for workload identities,
   agent identities, or other non-user subjects can be supported by
   registering additional extractions with no changes to the trust
   evaluation model (Appendix B).

1.7.  Conventions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  Terminology

   This document uses OAuth 2.0 [RFC6749] terminology.  Subject
   Identifier formats follow [RFC9493]; Trust Method identifiers are
   registered in Section 10.1.5.

   The following terms define the Authority Delegation Model used
   throughout this document.

   Authority:  The right to attest claims that a Validator will rely on,
      within a specified namespace, claim type, scope, or registration.
      This is distinct from "authority" in the access-management sense
      (the right to perform actions or access resources).  The IAM
      access-rights sense of "authority" is out of scope.

   Authority Holder:  An entity holding authority over a namespace,
      claim type, scope, or registration.  An Authority Holder may
      delegate that attestation authority to one or more Delegates.
      Examples: a DNS domain owner for an email namespace; a federation
      operator for federation membership.

   Delegate:  An entity that has received attestation authority from an
      Authority Holder and may issue Assertions within the delegated
      scope.  In this document the Delegate is the Assertion Issuer.

   Delegation Artifact:  A profile-defined representation of a
      delegation: a signed document, a DNS record, a JSON document at a
      well-known HTTPS URL, an entry in published metadata, or any other
      profile-defined publication form.  The Delegation Artifact MUST
      carry sufficient information to identify the Authority Holder, the
      Delegate, the delegated claim type or scope, and (when applicable)
      the validity bounds.

   Assertion:  A signed statement made by a Delegate about a Subject
      within the delegated scope.  In OAuth contexts this is typically a
      JWT [RFC7519].

   Validator:  The component that performs the trust evaluation:
      retrieves the Delegation Artifact, validates the Assertion,
      applies the combination rules, and produces an accept-or-reject
      result.  In this document the Validator is the Resource
      Authorization Server.  The Validator and Relying Party are
      conceptually distinct, paralleling the analogous distinction in
      the RATS Architecture ([RFC9334]).

   Authority Source:  A trust root, registry, publication channel, or
      configured source from which a Validator accepts Delegation
      Artifacts.  In many cases the Authority Source and the Authority
      Holder are the same entity (for example, a domain publishing its
      own DNS record).  In others they differ (for example, a federation
      trust anchor as the Authority Source for Subordinate Statements
      issued by intermediates).

   The following terms are specific to OAuth identity assertions.

   Resource Authorization Server (RAS):  The OAuth authorization server
      that receives an identity assertion as a grant, evaluates the
      trust policy, and issues access tokens for a protected resource.
      Not a new OAuth protocol role; OAuth readers may read it as "the
      authorization server receiving the assertion grant."  The RAS is
      the Validator.

   Assertion Issuer:  The service issuing an identity-bearing assertion,
      identified by the JWT iss claim.  The same string is the issuer
      value in OAuth Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414], OpenID
      Connect Discovery [OIDC-DISCOVERY], and the federation entity
      identifier in [OIDF-FEDERATION].  The Assertion Issuer is the
      Delegate.

   Subject Authority:  The Authority Holder for a Subject Identifier
      namespace.  For email, the registrable domain.

   Trust Policy:  The JSON document defined in Section 4.2, published by
      a Resource Authorization Server to declare its trust criteria.

   Trust Method:  A registered, named evaluation procedure by which a
      Validator tests one category of trust evidence about an Assertion
      Issuer (Section 4.3).  A Trust Policy names the Trust Methods it
      requires.

   Issuer Authorization Policy:  The Delegation Artifact by which a
      Subject Authority declares the Assertion Issuers it authorizes for
      its namespace.  Concrete representations (wire format, publication
      channel) are supplied by individual
      subject_namespace_authorization Trust Method specifications.

   Consumer:  Any party that retrieves and processes a policy document
      (Trust Policy or Issuer Authorization Policy): a Resource
      Authorization Server evaluating an assertion, or a client reading
      a Trust Policy for capability discovery.  Requirements addressed
      to consumers apply to both roles unless a narrower role is named.

3.  Authority Delegation Model

   This section is the explanatory model that the Trust Policy machinery
   (Section 4.2, Section 4.3) and profiles such as [DAI] instantiate.
   The vocabulary (Authority Holder, Delegate, Delegation Artifact,
   Assertion, Validator, Authority Source) is defined in Section 2.

3.1.  Pattern Overview

   Four roles cooperate around one delegation:

   Authority Holder
      |  delegates authority via
   Delegation Artifact
      |  identifies
   Delegate
      |  signs
   Assertion
      |  presented to
   Validator

   The Authority Holder publishes the Delegation Artifact through a
   profile-defined channel: a DNS record under its domain, an HTTPS
   document at a well-known URL on its host, a signed subordinate
   statement in a federation, or another profile-defined form.  Control
   of that publication channel is itself the authority binding: whoever
   can publish at the channel is the Authority Holder for the namespace,
   claim type, or scope.  The Validator validates the Delegation
   Artifact (which says "Authority Holder authorized Delegate") and the
   Assertion (which says "Delegate asserts something about Subject").
   Both validations are required.

   A delegation has a lifecycle: the Authority Holder establishes the
   artifact, publishes it, the Delegate uses it to mint Assertions, and
   revocation occurs by removing or expiring the artifact.  The
   framework provides no remote cache-invalidation mechanism; revocation
   latency is bounded by the profile's cache lifetime.  Subject
   Authorities that need fast revocation operate with short steady-state
   cache lifetimes.  Planned transfers (provider migrations,
   acquisitions) and unplanned revocations (security incidents) follow
   the same publication path: update the artifact, accept latency
   bounded by the cache window.

3.2.  Independent Trust Evaluation Categories

   A Validator combines two independent trust evaluations to accept an
   Assertion.  Each category answers a distinct question:

   *  *Authenticity*: is the entity that signed the Assertion
      cryptographically authentic and recognized as a member of some
      ecosystem?  Satisfied by evidence that signers and their keys
      belong to a recognized population (federation membership, trust-
      mark issuance, signed attester key).

   *  *Delegation authority*: has the Authority Holder for the asserted
      scope delegated to this signer?  Satisfied by a Delegation
      Artifact from the appropriate Authority Holder.

   The OAuth Trust Method categories defined in this document
   (Section 4.3.2) instantiate these: issuer_authentication realizes
   Authenticity, and subject_namespace_authorization realizes Delegation
   authority for namespace-bound Subject Identifiers.

   Local policy (risk scoring, scope grants, account linking, business
   rules) applies on top of these two categories and remains the final
   decision layer (Section 5.2 step 6).

3.2.1.  Cross-Category Combination Rule

   When more than one category is applicable to a request, the Validator
   MUST require at least one satisfying evidence item from each
   applicable category.  Within a single category, or-semantics apply:
   satisfying any one applicable evidence item is sufficient.  The rule
   is: _and_ across independent categories, _or_ within a category.

   Satisfying one category MUST NOT be treated as satisfying another.  A
   signer authenticated by federation membership has not been delegated
   namespace authority by that fact; an Authority Holder's delegation to
   a signer does not authenticate the signer's identity beyond what the
   Delegation Artifact attests.

3.2.1.1.  Category Applicability

   Category applicability is a property of the Validator's published
   Trust Policy, not of the incoming Assertion.  If the Trust Policy
   declares one or more Trust Methods in a given category, that category
   is applicable to every Assertion the Validator evaluates within the
   profile's scope.  The Assertion itself MUST NOT be able to waive the
   category: an Assertion lacking satisfying evidence for an applicable
   category MUST be rejected.  Profiles MUST NOT define applicability
   conditions that depend on properties of the Assertion under
   evaluation.  This prohibition is directional: assertion properties
   may never _relax_ what the policy requires; rejection rules keyed on
   assertion properties (such as the federation-only rule in Section 5.2
   step 5e) only tighten it and are permitted.

   A subject_namespace_authorization method therefore does not become
   inapplicable merely because an Assertion omits a Subject Identifier.
   A profile that admits such a method MUST require, in its grant-
   profile binding, that every Assertion in scope carry a Subject
   Identifier from which a Subject Authority is determinable, and MUST
   require rejection otherwise (see the processing rule in Section 5.2
   and Section 7.3 for the attack this prevents).

3.2.2.  Multiple Authority Sources Within a Category

   A Validator MAY accept Delegation Artifacts from multiple Authority
   Sources within the same category (multiple Subject Authorities for
   different namespaces, multiple federation trust anchors).  Selection
   of which Authority Source applies to a given Assertion happens before
   the Assertion is authenticated against any delegation, so a profile
   MUST define deterministic source selection: a binding function from
   Assertion + request context to exactly one Authority Source (or
   deterministic failure), invariant under attacker-controlled inputs
   outside the binding function.  The attack against ad-hoc or fallback
   selection logic and the deterministic-selection requirement are
   detailed in Section 7.2.

   A Validator MUST NOT fall through to a different Authority Source if
   the originally-applicable Authority Source's evaluation fails or is
   indeterminate (Section 3.4).

3.3.  Open-World Delegation and Bounded Transitivity

   This document targets *open-world delegation*: the Authority Holder
   is an entity independent of the Validator (a customer's domain, a
   federation operator) and the Validator retrieves Delegation Artifacts
   through the profile's publication channel at evaluation time.  Open-
   world does not mean open acceptance; the Validator publishes (or
   locally configures) which Authority Sources it accepts.  Closed-world
   delegation (Validator and Authority Holder are the same party,
   evidence is local configuration) is the degenerate case and remains
   compatible with the model.

   The Trust Methods defined in this document and in [DAI] are bounded
   at depth one: the Authority Holder directly lists every authorized
   Delegate; no further delegation is permitted.  Depth-1 keeps
   revocation latency bounded by one cache and prevents compromise of
   any non-Authority-Holder party from expanding the authorized set.
   OpenID Federation [OIDF-FEDERATION] is the notable chained-delegation
   profile in the OAuth ecosystem; the cross-category combination rule
   still applies independently of transitivity (a federation chain
   establishes Authenticity, not Delegation authority).

3.4.  Lookup States and Fail-Closed

   A Validator's lookup of a Delegation Artifact produces exactly one of
   three abstract states.  Profiles MUST map every concrete outcome of
   the lookup operation onto exactly one of these states.

3.4.1.  Lookup States

   *  *Affirmative*: a well-formed Delegation Artifact was retrieved
      through the authoritative publication channel, its signature
      (where applicable) verified, and its validity bounds hold at
      evaluation time.  The Validator proceeds to evaluate the Assertion
      against the artifact's contents.

   *  *Negative*: the publication channel authoritatively reports the
      absence of a Delegation Artifact.  Examples include DNS NXDOMAIN
      or NODATA with a valid (possibly DNSSEC-signed) authoritative
      answer where DNS is the profile's sole or final publication
      channel, and HTTPS 404 from the authority-bound origin.  A profile
      with multiple publication channels for the same Authority Source
      reaches Negative only when every channel reports absence (see e.g.
      [DAI]).  A profile MAY additionally define an explicitly published
      denial; whether it maps to Negative or to an Affirmative retrieval
      whose evaluation cannot succeed is the profile's choice under its
      state mapping.  A Negative state is itself a decision by the
      Authority Holder (the namespace exists but no delegation is in
      effect) and carries the same normative weight as any other
      published decision.

   *  *Indeterminate*: the lookup did not produce an authoritative
      Affirmative or Negative result.  Examples include DNS SERVFAIL,
      resolver timeout, network partition, HTTPS 5xx, TLS handshake
      failure, malformed publication-channel response, and structural
      validation failure on a retrieved artifact (invalid signature,
      unparseable payload, validity bounds outside the acceptable
      window).  An Indeterminate state carries no information about the
      Authority Holder's intent.

   The Affirmative / Negative / Indeterminate taxonomy is structural:
   Negative is the Authority Holder's affirmative non-delegation;
   Indeterminate is information the Validator could not obtain.

3.4.2.  Fail-Closed Requirements

   A Validator MUST classify every lookup outcome into exactly one of
   the three states above before producing an accept-or-reject decision.
   Profiles MUST enumerate the concrete signals on their publication
   channel that map to each state.

   A Validator MUST fail closed on both Negative and Indeterminate
   states: the access decision MUST be reject.  Profiles MUST NOT permit
   any condition under which an Indeterminate state is treated as
   Affirmative; doing so converts the fail-closed property into an
   availability-driven downgrade attack surface.

   A Validator MAY rely on a fresh cached Affirmative Delegation
   Artifact during a transient Indeterminate state on the live
   publication channel, but only if the cached artifact is within the
   cache lifetime bound the profile specifies.  Repeated Indeterminate
   states across consecutive lookups MUST NOT extend the effective cache
   lifetime beyond the profile's stated maximum; if the cache expires
   while the live channel remains Indeterminate, the Validator MUST
   transition to a reject decision.

   A Validator MUST NOT fall through to a different Authority Source on
   Negative or Indeterminate states from the originally-applicable
   Authority Source (Section 3.2.2).  Fallthrough on non-Affirmative
   states is the same downgrade as extended-cache-on-Indeterminate: both
   convert a hard denial into a soft one driven by adversary-
   controllable availability of the authoritative publication channel.

   Profiles MAY define additional lookup states (for example, a "stale-
   but-signed" state for transparency-log-bound artifacts) but MUST
   place any such state on the Affirmative-or-reject side of the
   decision boundary.  Profiles MUST NOT introduce a state that relaxes
   the Indeterminate-rejects-hard requirement.

4.  Trust Policy

4.1.  Metadata Publication

   A Resource Authorization Server publishes the location of its
   Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy in its authorization server
   metadata [RFC8414] using the following member:

   identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri  OPTIONAL.  HTTPS URI identifying
      the Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy document.

   A Protected Resource that publishes OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728] MAY include the same member to advertise the
   policy applied by its Resource Authorization Server.  Clients that
   obtain the URI from Protected Resource Metadata MUST verify that the
   policy document's resource_authorization_server value identifies an
   authorization server listed in the Protected Resource's
   authorization_servers array.  If the same member appears in both
   metadata documents, the authorization server metadata value is
   authoritative.

   A Resource Authorization Server may additionally publish the trust
   policy at the well-known URI registered in Section 10.1.3.  The well-
   known URI is derived from the Resource Authorization Server's issuer
   identifier by the transformation of [RFC8414] Section 3: the well-
   known path component identity-assertion-trust-policy is inserted
   between the host (and port, if any) and any path component of the
   issuer identifier.  For an issuer with no path component this yields
   https://{host}/.well-known/identity-assertion-trust-policy.  If both
   the metadata member and the well-known URI are available and identify
   different documents, the metadata member is authoritative.

   A consumer retrieving a Trust Policy document (from either source)
   fetches it with an HTTP GET over HTTPS with TLS server
   authentication, subject to the following rules.  The consumer MUST
   NOT act on a policy it could not retrieve and validate; such a
   retrieval failure is distinct from a successfully retrieved policy
   that rejects an assertion.

   *  The response MUST have status 200 and a media type of application/
      json or a +json-suffixed type.

   *  Redirects, if followed, MUST remain within the issuer's origin.

   *  Any other status, a TLS failure, a cross-origin redirect, an
      unparseable body, or a body exceeding a consumer-chosen limit
      (which MUST allow at least 64 KiB) is a retrieval failure.

   Example authorization server metadata:

   {
     "issuer": "https://api.resource.example",
     "token_endpoint": "https://api.resource.example/token",
     "grant_types_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer"
     ],
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri":
       "https://api.resource.example/.well-known/identity-assertion-trust-policy"
   }

4.2.  Trust Policy Document

   The Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy is a JSON object served
   over HTTPS with media type application/json (or a media type using
   the structured +json suffix).  Consumers MUST reject a policy whose
   required members are absent or wrong-typed, MUST reject a document
   containing duplicate member names at any object level, and MUST
   ignore unrecognized members except those named in crit (Section 4.6).
   The policy MAY include a crit member and a signed_policy member as
   defined in Section 4.5 and Section 4.6.  Members are registered in
   Section 10.1.6.

   Example:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.resource.example",
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods": [
       {
         "method": "openid_federation",
         "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"]
       },
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer"
       }
     ]
   }

4.2.1.  Members

   resource_authorization_server  REQUIRED.  The issuer identifier of
      the Resource Authorization Server.  MUST exactly match the
      authorization server metadata issuer value [RFC8414].

   authorization_grant_profiles_supported  REQUIRED.  JSON array of
      identity assertion grant profile identifiers supported by this
      policy.  This member uses the same name and identifier space as
      the OAuth Authorization Server Metadata parameter defined in
      [ID-JAG] §7.2; each value MUST match a profile identifier listed
      in the authorization server metadata's
      authorization_grant_profiles_supported parameter, where present.

   subject_identifier_formats_supported  OPTIONAL.  JSON array of
      Subject Identifier format names that the Resource Authorization
      Server accepts.  Values are defined by [RFC9493], by grant profile
      specifications, or by other specifications.  This member applies
      to all Trust Methods; an individual Trust Method MAY constrain the
      formats it evaluates (for example, domain_authorized_issuer
      evaluates only formats registered in Section 10.2).

   issuer_trust_methods  REQUIRED.  Non-empty JSON array of Trust Method
      objects (see Section 4.3).  This member states the trust
      REQUIREMENTS the Resource Authorization Server enforces against
      incoming identity assertions, not a list of capabilities.  An
      assertion is rejected unless an Assertion Issuer satisfies the
      Trust Method combination rule in Section 5.2 against the methods
      listed here; an issuer that happens to satisfy a method not listed
      here is not acceptable.  The member is deliberately named without
      the _supported suffix used by capability-style OAuth metadata
      parameters ([RFC8414]) to signal that distinction.  Local policy
      may add requirements per client, subject, or scope; see
      Section 7.10.

   signed_policy  OPTIONAL.  Signed JWT containing policy members as
      claims, using the representation defined in Section 4.5.  This
      member follows the signed metadata pattern used by [RFC8414] and
      [RFC9728].

4.3.  Trust Methods

4.3.1.  Trust Method Object Structure

   A Trust Method object is a JSON object with a string-valued method
   member naming a Trust Method identifier registered in Section 10.1.5
   plus any members required by that identifier.  An object whose
   required members are absent, wrong-typed, or out-of-constraint is
   malformed.  How an unrecognized or malformed object is handled
   depends on the consumer's role: a client reading the policy for
   capability discovery MAY skip objects it does not recognize (it
   cannot satisfy them), but a Resource Authorization Server evaluating
   an assertion MUST apply Section 5.2 step 5a and reject the assertion,
   because ignoring the object would silently evaluate a strict subset
   of the operator's declared requirements.

4.3.2.  Trust Method Categories

   Each Trust Method belongs to one or more of the categories below
   (registered in Section 10.1.4) and is itself registered in
   Section 10.1.5.  Evidence is combined across categories per
   Section 3.2.1; a single evidence item is never counted toward more
   than one category, even if its method is registered in several
   (Section 5.2 step 5a).

   issuer_authentication  Is the entity identified by the JWT iss claim
      authentically a member of a recognized ecosystem?

   subject_namespace_authorization  Is this Assertion Issuer entitled to
      assert about subjects in the named namespace?  When a policy lists
      a method in this category, every in-scope assertion must carry a
      resolvable Subject Identifier and fails closed if it does not
      (Section 5.2 step 5c).

   Deployments accepting assertions about namespace-bound subjects
   SHOULD list at least one subject_namespace_authorization method;
   federation membership alone does not establish namespace authority.
   Future specifications MAY register additional categories
   (Section 10.1.4).

4.3.3.  Requirements on Trust Method Specifications

   A specification defining a new Trust Method (whether in this document
   or a companion such as [DAI]) MUST provide all of the following, so
   that the deferral from this framework to the method is testable:

   *  The Trust Method identifier and the category or categories it
      belongs to (Section 10.1.5).

   *  The evidence the method consumes and the exact procedure by which
      a Validator decides the method is satisfied for a given (issuer,
      subject) pair, precise enough for interoperable implementation.

   *  The mapping of the method's retrieval and evaluation outcomes onto
      the Affirmative / Negative / Indeterminate lookup states
      (Section 3.4), including which conditions fail closed.

   *  For methods in subject_namespace_authorization, the deterministic
      binding from the assertion's Subject Identifier to the Subject
      Authority whose evidence is consulted, consistent with the single-
      source-selection rule (Section 3.2.2).

   *  Cache-lifetime bounds for any retrieved evidence, or an explicit
      statement that the method caches nothing.

   *  Any method-specific parameters, their JSON types, and whether each
      is REQUIRED or OPTIONAL.

4.3.4.  Issuer Authentication Methods

   issuer_authentication-category methods are satisfied by evidence that
   the Assertion Issuer belongs to a recognized ecosystem.  Membership
   alone does not establish authority over any particular subject
   namespace.

4.3.4.1.  openid_federation

   The openid_federation method indicates that the Assertion Issuer is
   acceptable if its OpenID Federation [OIDF-FEDERATION] trust chain
   validates to a listed trust anchor and (when required by the policy)
   the leaf holds the required Trust Marks.

   {
     "method": "openid_federation",
     "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"],
     "trust_marks": [
       {
         "id": "https://federation.example.org/marks/loa3",
         "issuer": "https://federation.example.org"
       }
     ]
   }

   trust_anchors  REQUIRED.  Non-empty JSON array of OpenID Federation
      trust anchor entity identifiers.

   trust_marks  OPTIONAL.  JSON array of Trust Mark requirement objects.
      When present, the leaf's Entity Configuration MUST include at
      least one Trust Mark satisfying every requirement object listed.
      Each requirement object has:

      id  REQUIRED.  String.  The Trust Mark identifier.

      issuer  REQUIRED.  String.  The Entity Identifier of the Trust
         Mark Issuer expected to have signed the Trust Mark.

   The Resource Authorization Server MUST validate the federation trust
   chain, metadata policy, and Trust Marks per [OIDF-FEDERATION];
   failure of any is failure of this Trust Method.

   Lookup states (Section 3.4): a fully validated chain terminating at a
   listed trust anchor is Affirmative.  A chain that validates but
   establishes non-membership (no path to any listed trust anchor, or an
   Entity Statement that authoritatively excludes the leaf) is Negative.
   Any retrieval or validation failure that prevents a definitive answer
   (an Entity Statement fetch failing or timing out, a signature that
   cannot be verified because key material is unavailable, an expired
   statement that cannot be refreshed) is Indeterminate; both Negative
   and Indeterminate fail closed.  Entity Statement caching follows the
   statements' own exp values per [OIDF-FEDERATION], bounded by the
   consumer's local cache ceiling; a cached chain MUST NOT be used past
   the earliest exp in the chain.

   In addition to the procedures in [OIDF-FEDERATION], the Resource
   Authorization Server MUST apply the following framework-specific
   requirements:

   1.  *Trust anchor match.* The terminal trust anchor of the validated
       chain MUST exactly match one of the listed trust_anchors values.

   2.  *Entity type constraint.* The leaf's policy-applied federation
       metadata MUST declare one of the entity types openid_provider or
       oauth_authorization_server ([OIDF-FEDERATION] §5).  The presence
       of other entity types alone does not satisfy this requirement.

   3.  *Federation-bound JWKS resolution.* The signing key for the
       identity assertion JWT MUST be resolved from the leaf's policy-
       applied federation metadata (the jwks or jwks_uri value in
       metadata.openid_provider or metadata.oauth_authorization_server).
       The Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT use a JWKS retrieved
       outside the federation (for example, fetched from the assertion
       iss URL via [RFC8414] Authorization Server Metadata) unless that
       JWKS exactly matches the federation-resolved JWKS.  This prevents
       a downgrade attack in which an attacker compromises the AS
       metadata endpoint without compromising the federation
       infrastructure.

   4.  *Trust Mark satisfaction.* If the Trust Method object contains
       trust_marks, the leaf's Entity Configuration MUST include Trust
       Marks satisfying every requirement object: each requirement is
       satisfied when at least one Trust Mark in the leaf's trust_marks
       array matches both id and issuer and validates per
       [OIDF-FEDERATION] §7.

   For OpenID Federation deployments, this Trust Method is the primary
   integration point between the federation and this framework; see
   Appendix A.1 for positioning.

4.3.5.  Subject Namespace Authorization Methods

   subject_namespace_authorization-category methods are satisfied by
   evidence published by the Subject Authority itself (typically a DNS
   or HTTPS record under the Subject Authority's domain).  The
   namespace-authorization trust graph is bounded to depth one
   (Section 7.5).  Concrete methods in this category are defined by
   companion specifications and registered in the Trust Methods registry
   (Section 10.1.5).

4.3.6.  Worked Example: OpenID Federation + DAI

   This non-normative example shows the two trust-evaluation categories
   used together.  A SaaS Resource Authorization Server
   (api.saas.example) accepts identity assertions from federation member
   Assertion Issuers about users in any customer namespace; the customer
   authorizes which specific Assertion Issuer serves its users.

   The Resource Authorization Server publishes:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.saas.example",
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods": [
       {
         "method": "openid_federation",
         "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"]
       },
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer"
       }
     ]
   }

   Customer acme.example publishes a DAI record naming
   https://idp.example.net as its authorized Assertion Issuer.  That
   Assertion Issuer is also a federation member of
   https://federation.example.org.

   A token-request flow with an ID-JAG carrying email:
   alice@acme.example, email_verified: true, iss:
   https://idp.example.net:

   1.  The Resource Authorization Server resolves both Trust Methods are
       applicable (the Trust Policy lists one in each category).

   2.  *Authenticity* (issuer_authentication category): the Resource
       Authorization Server validates the OpenID Federation trust chain
       from https://idp.example.net to https://federation.example.org.
       This proves the Assertion Issuer is an authentic federation
       member but says nothing about its authority over acme.example.

   3.  *Delegation authority* (subject_namespace_authorization
       category): the Resource Authorization Server extracts
       acme.example from the email claim, looks up the DAI record at
       _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example, and confirms
       https://idp.example.net appears in authorized_issuers.  This
       proves Acme delegated naming authority over its namespace to this
       specific Assertion Issuer.

   4.  The cross-category combination rule (Section 3.2.1) is satisfied:
       one Trust Method succeeded in each applicable category.  The
       Resource Authorization Server proceeds with private_key_jwt
       client authentication and access-token issuance.

   If the Assertion Issuer were federation-authenticated but Acme had
   not listed it in its DAI record, step 2 would succeed and step 3
   would fail; the Resource Authorization Server rejects with
   invalid_grant.  Federation membership alone does not establish
   namespace authority; the combination rule is what enforces this.  A
   deeper walkthrough including federation trust-chain validation and
   Trust Mark satisfaction is in Appendix E.

4.4.  Subject Authority Determination

   Determining the Subject Authority has two steps: first identify which
   registered Subject Identifier format the assertion carries, then
   apply that format's extraction procedure.  The grant-profile binding
   (Section 6) designates which claim conveys the Subject Identifier and
   thus which format applies; for the bindings in this document, a top-
   level email claim (with email_verified) is the email format.  A
   format is "used by the assertion" when the designated claim for that
   format is present.  If the designated claim maps to no registered
   format, the subject_namespace_authorization category cannot be
   evaluated and processing follows Section 5.2 step 5c.

   The Subject Authority associated with a Subject Identifier is then
   determined as registered in Section 10.2.  This document registers
   the email extraction as the initial entry.  The extraction-procedure
   pattern (Subject Identifier format to Subject Authority) is open:
   future specifications register additional formats for service
   identities, decentralized identifiers, federated handles, and other
   namespaces by adding entries to the same registry without changes to
   the rest of the framework.  See Appendix B.

   Initial extractions:

   email  The Subject Authority is derived from the assertion's top-
      level email claim, which MUST be accompanied by a top-level
      email_verified claim with the boolean value true.  If the
      email_verified claim is absent or has any value other than true,
      consumers MUST treat the email Subject Identifier as invalid for
      Subject Authority determination and MUST reject the assertion when
      email is the Subject Identifier being evaluated.  Consumers MUST
      NOT treat an unverified email claim as though the assertion
      carried no Subject Identifier.

      The domain is the substring after the single @. Consumers MUST
      reject an email claim value that does not contain exactly one @
      character or whose domain part is empty; this document uses the
      simple single-@ rule rather than the full [RFC5321] addr-spec
      grammar, and quoted local-parts or address forms that do not
      reduce to a single unquoted @ are out of scope for the email
      extraction.  The local-part is not used.  A trailing dot on the
      domain, if present, is removed.  The domain is converted to
      A-label form per [RFC5891] (applying IDNA processing, including
      Unicode normalization) before any Public Suffix List matching, so
      that comparison operates on a single canonical form.

      The A-label domain is then normalized to its registrable domain
      ("eTLD+1") by applying the Public Suffix List matching algorithm
      [PSL], including its wildcard * and exception ! rules: the Subject
      Authority is the shortest suffix of the domain that is one label
      longer than the longest matching public suffix.  Consumers MUST
      use both the ICANN and PRIVATE divisions of the list (a delegated
      namespace listed in the PRIVATE division, such as team.example-
      pages.example, resolves to that namespace; using only the ICANN
      division would compute a coarser Subject Authority and query a
      different name).  The result is compared using case-insensitive
      ASCII comparison of A-labels.  Consumers MUST reject an email
      whose domain is itself a public suffix (no registrable domain
      exists) and MUST reject a domain that is not a valid A-label or
      U-label sequence.  Registrable-domain normalization prevents an
      attacker who controls a subdomain (for example, via subdomain
      takeover) from overriding the legitimate record at the registrable
      domain.

   A Subject Identifier whose format is not registered in Section 10.2
   yields no Subject Authority; processing follows Section 5.2 step 5c.

   Subject Authority extraction MUST be exact-match: wildcard, suffix,
   regular-expression, and substring matching against Subject Authority
   values are forbidden unless explicitly specified by the relevant
   Subject Identifier format's extraction procedure.

4.4.1.  Public Suffix List Versioning

   Deriving a registrable domain from a DNS name has no protocol
   solution: the IETF DBOUND working group examined the problem of
   determining administrative (organizational) boundaries in the DNS and
   concluded without a standard, and the Public Suffix List remains the
   de facto mechanism (it is used the same way by DMARC organizational-
   domain discovery and by cookie same-site rules).  This framework
   inherits the PSL's limitations knowingly.

   The PSL [PSL] is updated continuously, and snapshots taken at
   different times can yield different registrable domains for the same
   email.  Because the Subject Authority is the DNS name queried, two
   Resource Authorization Servers using different PSL snapshots can
   compute different Subject Authorities for the same assertion and thus
   query different names and reach different decisions; this is a
   deterministic-source-selection hazard (Section 3.2.2) and a security
   consideration, not merely an operational one, during the window in
   which a label's public-suffix status is changing.  Consumers SHOULD
   use a snapshot of the [PSL] no older than 30 days.  The determinism
   property this framework claims holds for a given computed Subject
   Authority; parties that require identical Subject Authority
   computation across verifiers (for example, a Subject Authority and
   the Resource Authorization Servers that consume its policy) SHOULD
   agree on, or pin, a PSL snapshot.  Subject Authorities SHOULD monitor
   PSL changes affecting their namespace.

4.4.2.  Subdomain Authority

   The registrable-domain default prevents subdomain-takeover from
   capturing parent-domain authority.  A subdomain-exact variant is
   sketched in Appendix B and would require the parent registrable-
   domain authority to explicitly delegate to the subdomain.

4.5.  Signed Policy Metadata

   The Trust Policy and Issuer Authorization Policy documents MAY
   include a signed_policy member that provides cryptographic integrity
   for signed policy claims.  When the signed JWT contains all
   recognized decision-affecting policy members, signed_policy can
   provide object-level integrity for the policy document.  This member
   follows the signed metadata pattern defined for authorization server
   metadata in [RFC8414] and protected resource metadata in [RFC9728].

   The signed_policy value is a JWT [RFC7519] in JWS Compact
   Serialization [RFC7515] containing policy members as claims.  The JWT
   MUST be digitally signed using an asymmetric algorithm, MUST contain
   an iss claim identifying the party attesting to the signed policy
   claims, and MUST contain iat.  It MUST contain exp, so that a
   superseded signed policy cannot be replayed indefinitely (relevant in
   the shared-infrastructure scenario for which signing is recommended,
   Section 7.9); consumers MUST reject an expired signed_policy.  The
   JOSE header SHOULD contain a kid identifying the signing key.  The
   JWT payload SHOULD NOT contain a signed_policy claim.

   Algorithms: [RFC8725] (JWT Best Current Practices) applies unchanged.
   In addition, the JWT MUST NOT use a MAC algorithm (HS256/384/512);
   verification keys are widely distributed and a MAC scheme would
   require sharing the signing key with every Validator, defeating the
   authority binding.  Implementations MUST support ES256 and SHOULD
   support EdDSA and ES384; RS256 with >=2048-bit keys MAY be supported
   for compatibility.

   Per [RFC8725] §3.11 (cross-context confusion), the JWT typ header
   MUST be trust-policy+jwt for Trust Policy documents or issuer-
   authorization-policy+jwt for Issuer Authorization Policy documents.

   The acceptable signer depends on which policy document is signed:

   *  For the Trust Policy document, the JWT iss claim MUST equal the
      resource_authorization_server claim.  The verification key MUST be
      controlled by that Resource Authorization Server.  Consumers MAY
      resolve the key from the Resource Authorization Server's
      authorization server metadata jwks_uri, federation entity
      configuration, or local configuration, except in the shared-
      infrastructure trust model of Section 7.9, where the jwks_uri
      typically traverses the same shared edge as the policy document
      and the key MUST instead be resolved through a channel independent
      of that edge (federation or local configuration).

   *  For an Issuer Authorization Policy document, the JWT payload MUST
      contain the member that identifies the Subject Authority in the
      profile's wire format (subject_authority in [DAI]).  The JWT iss
      claim MUST either equal that Subject Authority identifier or
      identify a signing authority that local policy or an applicable
      Trust Method establishes as controlled by the Subject Authority.
      Consumers MUST NOT treat a signature by an Assertion Issuer the
      policy authorizes as proof of Subject Authority authorization
      unless such a relationship is explicitly established.

      The verification key for an Issuer Authorization Policy signer
      MUST be resolved through a channel independent of the one that
      carried the policy document.  A profile that admits signed_policy
      on the Issuer Authorization Policy MUST specify at least one of
      the following key-resolution mechanisms and state its trust
      assumptions:

      -  a key published under DNSSEC-signed records for the Subject
         Authority;

      -  a key resolved through a federation or trust-anchor
         relationship established by an issuer_authentication Trust
         Method; or

      -  a key configured out of band at the consumer.

      Rationale: an attacker who controls the publication channel can
      substitute both the policy and, if the key is fetched over that
      same channel, the key.  Absent an independent channel, the
      signature provides integrity no stronger than channel control
      (which already establishes authority), and consumers MUST NOT rely
      on it to defend against compromise of that channel.

   If both unsigned policy members and signed_policy are present, the
   signed policy claims MUST be used as the policy values for all claims
   present in the JWT.  Unsigned members that are not represented as
   claims in the JWT MAY be used subject to the normal processing rules
   for unrecognized members.  A conflict exists when a member name
   appears in both the unsigned outer document and the signed JWT
   payload AND the two values are not equal when compared as parsed JSON
   values (member order and insignificant whitespace ignored;
   equivalently, their JCS [RFC8785] serializations differ).  Consumers
   MUST reject a policy that contains any such conflict; an attacker who
   can modify the outer document but not the signed JWT otherwise has a
   lever to inject visible-but-ignored members that may mislead
   operators or downstream tooling.

   A publisher that needs to require signed_policy processing by all
   conforming consumers lists signed_policy in the document's crit
   member (Section 4.6); a consumer that does not implement
   signed_policy processing then rejects the document rather than
   silently ignoring the signature.  Absent a crit entry, the presence
   of signed_policy provides integrity only for consumers that support
   and verify it, or for deployments where local policy requires signed
   policy processing.

   If a consumer requires object-level integrity by local policy, the
   consumer MUST verify the signed JWT before acting on the policy, and
   the JWT payload MUST contain every recognized decision-affecting
   member used by that consumer.  The consumer MUST NOT use unsigned
   recognized decision-affecting members that are absent from the JWT
   payload.  If signature verification fails, if the verification key is
   unacceptable, if the JWT is malformed, if the required issuer binding
   above is not satisfied, or if the JWT omits a recognized decision-
   affecting member required for evaluation, the consumer MUST reject
   the policy as malformed.

4.6.  Critical Members

   The Trust Policy and Issuer Authorization Policy documents MAY
   include a crit member: a JSON array of strings naming other members
   of the same document whose correct processing is REQUIRED for safe
   interpretation.  A consumer that does not recognize, or does not
   implement processing for, any member named in crit MUST reject the
   document as malformed rather than ignoring the unrecognized member.
   Members not named in crit retain the default handling: unrecognized
   members are ignored.

   crit, when present, MUST be a non-empty array of strings; each string
   SHOULD name a member that is actually present in the document.  A
   consumer MUST reject the document if crit is present but not a non-
   empty array of strings, and MUST reject if crit names crit itself.
   This is the same fail-closed pattern JWS ([RFC7515] Section 4.1.11)
   uses for critical header parameters.

   Publishers MUST place crit in the outer (unsigned) document: a crit
   present only in a signed_policy JWT payload is invisible to consumers
   that do not process signatures and therefore has no effect on them.
   It MAY additionally be duplicated as a claim in the signed JWT so
   that its value is integrity-protected.

   This mechanism is defined in the base specification, with no member
   named critical by default, so that a future extension can mark a new
   decision-affecting member critical and have already-deployed
   consumers honor it; an extension that omitted it from the base could
   not retrofit fail-closed behavior onto the deployed base.  The DNS
   record form does not carry crit; see Appendix B.3.

5.  Trust Policy Processing

   The trust policy governs whether an Assertion Issuer's identity
   assertion is acceptable to the Resource Authorization Server.  It
   does not, by itself, authorize any particular access, scope, role, or
   attribute.  The Resource Authorization Server's local policy
   continues to determine, for an accepted assertion, which scopes are
   granted, which subject claims are honored for account linking, and
   which local authorization decisions follow.  The trust policy is
   necessary but not sufficient: passing trust policy evaluation only
   means the Resource Authorization Server is willing to consider the
   assertion as input to its access-control logic.

5.1.  Client Processing

   A client that wants to obtain an identity assertion JWT for a
   Resource Authorization Server:

   1.  Discovers the Resource Authorization Server metadata [RFC8414].

   2.  Confirms that the desired grant profile is supported by checking
       the authorization_grant_profiles_supported parameter ([ID-JAG]
       §7.2) in the authorization server's metadata.

   3.  Fetches the identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri document.

   4.  Determines whether an available Assertion Issuer can satisfy the
       Trust Method combination rule in Section 5.2.  For namespace-
       bound Subject Identifiers, this usually means satisfying both an
       issuer_authentication method (such as federation membership) and
       a subject_namespace_authorization method (such as authorization
       by the Subject Authority).

   5.  Determines whether the Assertion Issuer can produce a Subject
       Identifier in a format listed in
       subject_identifier_formats_supported, if that member is present,
       and required by the applicable grant profile.

   6.  Requests an identity assertion JWT from the selected Assertion
       Issuer.

   The client MUST NOT treat the trust policy as a guarantee that a
   particular assertion will be accepted.  The Resource Authorization
   Server always applies local policy at token request time.

5.2.  Resource Authorization Server Processing

   This section specifies the normative processing procedure.  It is the
   OAuth-identity-assertion instantiation of the Authority Delegation
   Model (Section 3): each Trust Method category in the applicable Trust
   Policy is evaluated under the cross-category combination rule
   (Section 3.2.1); lookup outcomes are classified per Section 3.4;
   source selection is deterministic per Section 3.2.2.

   When evaluating an identity assertion JWT presented in a token
   request, the Resource Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Select and parse the trust policy that applies to the token
       request.  If the policy document is malformed, reject the
       assertion.  (Recognition of individual Trust Method objects is
       handled in step 5a.)

   2.  Validate the assertion per the applicable grant profile
       ([RFC7521], [RFC7523], [ID-JAG]).

   3.  Verify that the applicable grant profile is listed in
       authorization_grant_profiles_supported.

   4.  If subject_identifier_formats_supported is present, verify that
       the Subject Identifier format used by the assertion is listed,
       unless the applicable grant profile defines a different format
       selection rule.

   5.  Verify that the Assertion Issuer identified by iss satisfies the
       Trust Method combination rule:

       a.  Partition the Trust Method objects in issuer_trust_methods by
       category (see Section 4.3.2).  A Trust Method registered with
       multiple categories belongs to each.  If any object in
       issuer_trust_methods is not recognized, is malformed, or cannot
       be assigned to a category known to the Resource Authorization
       Server, the Resource Authorization Server MUST reject the
       assertion: it cannot determine whether it is evaluating the full
       set of requirements the operator declared, and silently ignoring
       the object would evaluate a strict subset (a fail-open category
       downgrade).  A single evidence item MUST NOT be counted toward
       more than one category even when its Trust Method is registered
       in several.

       b.  Each category present in the partitioned policy is applicable
       to every assertion evaluated under this policy; applicability is
       a property of the policy, not the assertion (Section 3.2.1.1).
       For each present category, the Assertion Issuer MUST satisfy at
       least one Trust Method from that category.

       c.  When the policy contains a subject_namespace_authorization
       Trust Method, the assertion MUST carry a Subject Identifier from
       which a Subject Authority can be determined per Section 4.4 or an
       equivalent registry.  If the assertion carries no such Subject
       Identifier, or no Subject Authority can be determined, the
       Resource Authorization Server MUST reject the assertion.  The
       Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT treat the
       subject_namespace_authorization category as inapplicable because
       the assertion omits a Subject Identifier, and MUST NOT consume
       any subject or identity claim from the assertion for account
       linking, authorization, or subject resolution when the namespace
       category is present but cannot be evaluated.

       d.  Local policy MAY require satisfaction of additional Trust
       Methods for specific clients, subjects, or scopes.

       e.  When the policy lists only issuer_authentication methods and
       the assertion carries a namespace-bound Subject Identifier (one
       whose format has a registered Subject Authority extraction
       procedure, Section 10.2, so that the Resource Authorization
       Server can determine this without running a namespace method),
       the Resource Authorization Server MUST reject the assertion
       unless local policy independently establishes authority over the
       subject namespace: federation membership alone does not establish
       authority over a particular subject namespace.

   6.  Apply local policy (account-linking, consent, authorization,
       risk) and the applicable grant profile's client authentication
       and sender-constraining; this document does not specify either.

   Failure to satisfy issuer trust, subject identifier, or assertion
   claim requirements in the trust policy MUST result in an OAuth
   invalid_grant error unless another error is defined by the applicable
   grant profile.  Detailed trust-evaluation failure state MUST NOT be
   returned to public clients in the OAuth error response; it is a
   reconnaissance target.

6.  Grant Profile and Token Bindings

   This section defines bindings for ID-JAG (Section 6.1) and the
   generic JWT-bearer assertion grant (Section 6.2).  Other assertion-
   bearing grant profiles would supply analogous bindings, naming their
   grant profile identifier, their Subject Identifier-bearing claim, and
   any profile-specific JWT claims that participate in Trust Method
   evaluation.

   Both bindings arrive at the token endpoint with
   grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer.  The Resource
   Authorization Server determines which binding governs a given
   assertion from the assertion's JWT typ header: an assertion typed per
   [ID-JAG] is evaluated under Section 6.1; other JWT-bearer assertions
   are evaluated under Section 6.2.

6.1.  ID-JAG

   For ID-JAG [ID-JAG], authorization_grant_profiles_supported contains
   the value urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag.  The Subject
   Identifier for ID-JAG is the top-level email claim, accompanied by
   email_verified=true, extracted per Section 4.4.  When the trust
   policy contains a subject_namespace_authorization method, Section 5.2
   step 5c requires the ID-JAG to carry that Subject Identifier and
   requires rejection if it is absent or unresolvable.

   In addition to the processing in Section 5.2, the Resource
   Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Validate the ID-JAG per [ID-JAG].

   2.  Verify that the email Subject Identifier, when the assertion
       carries one, uses a format listed in
       subject_identifier_formats_supported, if that trust policy member
       is present.  (Whether the assertion is required to carry the
       Subject Identifier at all is governed by Section 5.2 step 5c.)

   3.  Use the email attribution only for subject resolution and Subject
       Authority evaluation.  The Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT
       treat the mere presence or value of the email claim as proof that
       the ID-JAG issuer is authoritative for the subject; issuer
       acceptability is established only by evaluating the Trust
       Methods.

6.2.  Generic JWT-Bearer Assertion Grant

   This section provides the binding for the JWT-bearer authorization
   grant of [RFC7523] Section 2.1 when the assertion carries an identity
   claim to which Subject Authority Determination applies.  Other
   identity-carrying grant profiles (e.g., ID-JAG, Section 6.1) supply
   their own bindings.

   A Resource Authorization Server that accepts generic RFC 7523 JWT-
   bearer assertion grants advertises urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-
   type:jwt-bearer in grant_types_supported.  RFC 7523 defines no
   distinct grant-profile identifier, so this framework reuses that
   grant-type URN as the grant-profile identifier; a deployment
   accepting this grant MUST list it in
   authorization_grant_profiles_supported so Section 5.2 step 3 applies
   uniformly.

   As with ID-JAG, the Subject Identifier for this binding is the top-
   level email claim, accompanied by email_verified=true, extracted per
   Section 4.4.  The sub claim is not a Subject Identifier source under
   this binding, even when its value is in email form: sub is an issuer-
   scoped identifier ([RFC7519]) that may merely resemble an email, and
   no verification signal attests it (email_verified attests the email
   claim).  Fixing a single source preserves the deterministic single-
   source-selection requirement of Section 3.2.2; an Assertion Issuer
   whose subject identifiers are email-form sub values participates by
   also emitting the email and email_verified claims.  A future
   extension MAY register an additional extraction procedure
   (Section 10.2) for other claim sources.

   In addition to the processing in Section 5.2, the Resource
   Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Validate the JWT per [RFC7523].

   2.  Verify that the email Subject Identifier, when the assertion
       carries one, uses a format listed in
       subject_identifier_formats_supported, if that trust policy member
       is present.

   3.  Treat the identity claim only as input to Subject Authority
       evaluation.  Issuer acceptability is established only by
       evaluating the Trust Methods.

   Because the generic JWT-bearer grant carries no tenant claim, tenant-
   scoped authorization is not expressible for assertions delivered
   under this grant; the resulting constraint on Subject Authorities
   that rely on shared multi-tenant Assertion Issuers is specified in
   [DAI] §Single-Issuer Multi-Tenant Identity Providers.

   This binding does not apply to JWT client authentication ([RFC7523]
   Section 2.2), where the Subject Identifier is the client_id
   registered with the authorization server and no external namespace-
   owner delegation exists.

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Alignment with OAuth Security BCP

   This document complements the OAuth 2.0 Security Best Current
   Practice ([RFC9700]); it does not duplicate or override it.  The
   subject_namespace_authorization category is the wire-format analog of
   [RFC9700] §4.4 (AS mix-up mitigations): to the extent the Subject
   Authority's publication channel provides integrity, a Resource
   Authorization Server will not accept an assertion from an AS that the
   Subject Authority has not listed.  This guarantee is only as strong
   as the integrity of that channel: a Trust Method whose evidence is
   published over unauthenticated DNS or a compromisable HTTPS origin
   can be defeated by an attacker who controls that channel (see the
   per-Trust-Method security analysis, e.g. [DAI], and Section 3.2.2).
   It is not an unconditional guarantee.  Other [RFC9700] topics
   (redirect URI validation, bearer-token replay, client authentication)
   apply at the grant-profile and client-authentication layers and are
   not addressed here.  Implementations SHOULD follow [RFC9700] at those
   layers.

7.2.  Unverified Claim Exploitation

   Source selection (Section 3.2.2) chooses which Authority Source's
   delegation applies to the incoming Assertion.  At the point of
   selection, the Assertion's signature has not yet been validated
   against any Delegation Artifact; the Assertion is an untrusted
   payload.  A profile whose source-selection algorithm considers
   multiple claims, applies preference ordering, or falls back from one
   input to another gives an attacker a selection lever.

   The attack: the attacker constructs an Assertion whose claims satisfy
   multiple potential bindings.  The Validator's selection algorithm
   picks the weakest (or most attacker-favorable) Authority Source's
   policy.  The Assertion is evaluated against a Delegation Artifact
   that the legitimate Authority Holder for the target namespace never
   authorized.

   Worked example: an Assertion carries sub: alice@victim.example AND
   tenant_context: attacker-tenant.example.  A loosely written profile
   selects the Authority Source by tenant context when present, falling
   back to subject domain.  The Validator selects attacker-
   tenant.example, fetches that Authority Holder's Delegation Artifact
   (which the attacker controls), validates the Assertion against it,
   and accepts a claim about a victim.example subject.

   The mitigation is *deterministic source selection* (Section 3.2.2): a
   binding function from Assertion + request context to exactly one
   Authority Source.  Profiles MUST define that function explicitly and
   the function MUST:

   *  Use explicitly defined inputs (a single named claim, header,
      request parameter, or fixed tuple).

   *  Produce exactly one Authority Source for any valid input, or fail
      deterministically (no preference ordering, no fallback across
      candidates).

   *  Be invariant under attacker-controlled inputs outside the binding
      function: the presence, absence, or value of any other claim MUST
      NOT alter the selected Authority Source.

   The email extraction registered by this document derives the Subject
   Authority deterministically from a single claim and does not fall
   back; profiles registering additional extractions MUST preserve this
   property.

7.3.  Applicability Bypass

   The cross-category combination rule (Section 3.2.1) requires the
   Validator to evaluate every applicable category.  A profile that lets
   category applicability depend on the incoming Assertion gives the
   attacker a way to waive the category by constructing a matching
   Assertion.

   The attack: the profile (or local configuration) declares "the
   delegation-authority category is not applicable when the Assertion is
   from a legacy issuer" (or carries a legacy-flag claim, or fails some
   heuristic that signals "legacy").  The attacker constructs an
   Assertion matching the legacy condition.  The Validator silently
   skips the entire delegation-authority evaluation; the open-world
   defense layer is bypassed and the Validator falls back to
   authenticity alone, which the cross-category combination rule was
   explicitly designed to forbid as sufficient.

   The mitigation: category applicability MUST be a property of the
   Validator's published Trust Policy, not of the incoming Assertion.
   Migration scenarios where some traffic legitimately predates a
   category's availability are handled at the policy layer, not by
   silently waiving the category.  Per-deployment-phase policy is a
   configuration boundary; Assertion-driven waiver is an attacker-
   controlled boundary.

7.4.  Authority Source Compromise

   The authority binding (publication channel) is the highest-value
   target.  A compromise of the publication channel (DNS hijack, TLS
   misissuance plus DNS redirect, registrar account takeover, compromise
   of the federation operator's signing key) substitutes the Authority
   Holder's voice with the attacker's.  Delegation Artifacts published
   through the compromised channel are indistinguishable from legitimate
   ones.

   This framework does not provide cryptographic recovery from
   publication-channel compromise.  Recovery is operational.  Profiles
   SHOULD recommend operational defenses appropriate to their
   publication channel (DNSSEC, registry-lock, CAA records, Certificate
   Transparency monitoring, federation key rotation).  See [DAI]
   §Security Considerations for the DNS+HTTPS publication-channel
   compromise model.

7.5.  Transitive Authorization is Bounded

   The two trust categories make different transitivity choices, both
   permitted within the taxonomy of Section 3.3:

   *  issuer_authentication permits chained transitivity.  The
      openid_federation Trust Method accepts a chain from a leaf entity
      to a trust anchor; the trust anchor's signature on intermediate
      Subordinate Statements transitively authenticates the leaf.

   *  subject_namespace_authorization requires depth-1 (no chaining).  A
      Subject Authority lists specific Assertion Issuers directly; it
      cannot delegate further to whoever Issuer X federates.  Revocation
      latency is bounded by the Subject Authority's own cache lifetime
      and does not compound across delegations.

   The two categories are independent: federation membership does not
   establish namespace authority, and namespace authorization does not
   establish authenticity.  The cross-category combination rule
   (Section 5.2) enforces this independence at evaluation time.  See
   Appendix A.1 for positioning against OpenID Federation.

7.6.  Scope of Namespace Authorization

   Trust-policy evaluation establishes that the Assertion Issuer is
   authorized to assert this class of Subject Identifiers under the
   namespace.  Resource Authorization Servers MUST still validate the
   assertion (signature, audience, expiration, replay protection, client
   binding) per the applicable grant profile, and MUST NOT infer any of
   the following from a successful trust-policy evaluation:

   *  The named subject exists at the Assertion Issuer or controls the
      email local-part ([DAI] §Email Local-Part Is Not Authenticated).

   *  The subject's current employment, enrollment, or organizational
      status.

   *  The strength, freshness, or method of the Assertion Issuer's
      authentication.

   *  Account-linking semantics (case sensitivity, plus-address or alias
      handling) compatible with this Resource Authorization Server's.

   *  Suitability for any specific risk class, scope sensitivity, or
      compliance regime.

   The authorization is also not audience-scoped: a Delegation Artifact
   authorizes an issuer for a namespace, not for particular Resource
   Authorization Servers, so a compromised-but-authorized issuer can
   mint assertions about the namespace's subjects for any consumer.  A
   future extension may let Authority Holders constrain acceptable
   audiences (see [DAI] §Future Extensions).

   These properties are out of scope and obtained, if needed, through
   mechanisms outside this framework (authentication-method/AAL claims,
   fresh-authentication signals, account-status attestations, out-of-
   band verification).  In particular, email_verified=true is a
   prerequisite for deriving namespace authority from the email's
   domain; it is not evidence of current mailbox control.

   The subject_namespace_authorization category constrains which
   Assertion Issuers may assert about a namespace; it does not constrain
   which Resource Authorization Servers an authorized Assertion Issuer
   may target.  Audience binding is enforced by the assertion's aud
   claim and the applicable grant profile, not by the Subject Authority.

7.7.  Per-Assertion Revocation Is Out of Scope

   This framework decides whether an Assertion Issuer is authorized; it
   does not revoke individual assertions.  JWT bearer tokens are
   stateless and remain valid until exp regardless of session
   termination, credential revocation at the Assertion Issuer, or
   Subject Authority withdrawal of the issuer's authorization via DAI
   (which prevents NEW assertions but does not invalidate already-issued
   ones).  Deployments requiring synchronous revocation MUST use OAuth
   2.0 Token Revocation [RFC7009], Token Introspection [RFC7662], or
   short assertion lifetimes at the grant-profile layer.

7.8.  Policy Document Integrity

   The trust policy MUST be served over HTTPS with TLS server
   authentication.  Deployments needing integrity beyond TLS use the
   signed_policy member (Section 4.5), with the signer binding rules
   defined there.  Mirrored or cached copies MUST NOT be relied on
   beyond their HTTP cache lifetime (Section 7.11).

7.9.  Shared Infrastructure and Hosted Well-Known Paths

   Many deployments host /.well-known/ resources behind third-party
   Content Delivery Networks (CDNs), shared edge platforms, or multi-
   tenant cloud hosting systems.  TLS server authentication proves that
   the client reached an endpoint serving the requested host name; it
   does not prove that every routing rule, origin-pull rule, cache rule,
   or tenant boundary inside the shared platform is controlled by the
   namespace owner.

   This matters for both the Resource Authorization Server trust policy
   and the Subject Authority's Issuer Authorization Policy.  If an
   attacker can exploit shared infrastructure to serve a forged /.well-
   known/oauth-issuer-policy response for a victim domain, the attacker
   can attempt to authorize an Assertion Issuer for that victim's
   namespace even though the HTTPS connection itself succeeds.  Similar
   risks arise from misconfigured path routing, dangling origins, tenant
   takeover, cache poisoning, or origin authentication failures.

   Administrators SHOULD avoid delegating security-critical well-known
   paths to multi-tenant infrastructure unless they can ensure exclusive
   control over routing for those paths, authenticated origin access,
   cache invalidation, and tenant isolation.  Deployments that host
   policy documents on shared infrastructure and treat the shared edge
   as outside their trust boundary MUST use object-level cryptographic
   integrity for the policy document itself, such as the signed_policy
   member (Section 4.5), rather than relying on the TLS channel to the
   shared edge.  The signing key MUST be controlled by the Subject
   Authority or Resource Authorization Server independently of CDN
   tenant configuration, and MUST be resolvable through a channel
   independent of the shared edge (see the key-resolution requirement in
   Section 4.5).

   Because the crit member (Section 4.6) is itself carried in the
   unsigned document, an attacker who can strip signed_policy can strip
   crit with it; publisher-side criticality therefore does not defend
   against stripping by an on-path or edge attacker.  A signed_policy
   member is only effective against such an attacker if consumers are
   configured to require it: the attacker can otherwise serve an
   unsigned document, which a consumer not configured to require
   signatures would accept (a signature-stripping downgrade).  A
   consumer operating in a shared-infrastructure trust model therefore
   MUST require and verify signed_policy before acting on the policy,
   MUST reject a policy that omits it, and MUST treat a valid TLS
   connection to a shared edge as insufficient by itself.

7.10.  Downgrade Attacks

   A Resource Authorization Server that supports multiple Trust Methods
   SHOULD define local precedence rules.  Because or-semantics apply
   within a single Trust Method category and the client cannot observe
   per-subject local requirements, Resource Authorization Servers MUST
   enforce differentiated requirements at token request time rather than
   relying on the policy document alone; a client's choice of a weaker
   listed Trust Method is not a protocol violation the client can be
   held to, it is a condition the Resource Authorization Server rejects.
   The cross-category combination rule in Section 5.2 prevents downgrade
   across categories (for example, satisfying only an
   issuer_authentication method when a subject_namespace_authorization
   method is also applicable).

7.11.  Trust Policy Caching

   HTTP caching of the trust policy follows [RFC9111], subject to local
   maximum cache lifetimes.  Revocation status of validated trust
   evidence MUST be checked at the cadence required by the applicable
   Trust Method specification, independent of policy-document cache
   expiration.  Transport integrity is addressed in Section 7.8.

7.12.  Observability

   Trust-policy evaluation is a security-critical decision; deployments
   are encouraged to log, for each processed assertion, at minimum the
   Assertion Issuer identifier, the trust policy URI with its retrieval
   time and cache validator (for example, its ETag), the Trust Methods
   that succeeded, the matched trust anchor or Issuer Authorization
   Policy origin, the Subject Identifier format, and the accept/reject
   outcome, and to support correlation across the issuance and
   verification halves of an identity-chain transaction.

8.  Privacy Considerations

   Trust policies are typically published as unauthenticated HTTPS
   resources.  Adversaries can scrape them across many Resource
   Authorization Servers to map federation deployment landscapes: which
   RASes participate in which federations, which trust anchors are
   accepted, which Subject Identifier formats are honored.  This
   information aids targeted attacks (for example, prioritizing
   compromise of a heavily-relied-upon trust anchor).  Operators should
   publish only what clients need to determine whether they can attempt
   issuance, and prefer trust-anchor or federation expression over
   enumerating individual issuers.

   Subject Authority lookup at the RAS reveals the queried Subject
   Authority to DNS resolvers and, for HTTPS retrieval, to the policy
   host.  RASes verifying with domain_authorized_issuer should treat the
   Subject Authority and Assertion Issuer relationship as sensitive
   operational data and avoid sending full subject identifiers in policy
   URLs, query parameters, logs, or telemetry.

9.  Internationalization Considerations

   The email Subject Identifier format carries an internationalized
   domain.  Consumers convert the domain to A-label form per [RFC5891]
   (applying IDNA2008 processing, including Unicode normalization)
   before Public Suffix List matching and before comparison, and compare
   A-labels using case-insensitive ASCII comparison (Section 4.4).
   Performing all comparison on the A-label form means two visually
   distinct Unicode domains that map to different A-labels are correctly
   treated as different Subject Authorities; conversely, this mechanism
   does not by itself defend against homograph confusion presented to a
   human at account-linking or display time, which is out of scope and
   left to the consuming application.  Comparison operates on the
   mechanism level, not the visual level.

   The email extraction uses the simple single-@ rule and does not
   implement the full [RFC5321] addr-spec grammar; internationalized
   email addresses (SMTPUTF8, [RFC6530]) whose local-part requires UTF-8
   are outside the scope of the email extraction defined here, though
   the domain of such an address is handled normally once isolated.  A
   future Subject Identifier format may define richer address handling
   by registering its own extraction procedure (Section 10.2).

10.  IANA Considerations

10.1.  Trust Policy Registrations

10.1.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

   Registers identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri in the IANA "OAuth
   Authorization Server Metadata" registry:

   Metadata Name:  identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri

   Metadata Description:  HTTPS URI identifying the Resource
      Authorization Server's Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy
      document.

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

10.1.2.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registry

   Registers the same parameter in the IANA "OAuth Protected Resource
   Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   Metadata Name:  identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri

   Metadata Description:  HTTPS URI identifying the Identity Assertion
      Issuer Trust Policy document applied by the Resource Authorization
      Server associated with this Protected Resource.

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

10.1.3.  Well-Known URI for Trust Policy

   Registers the following well-known URI in the IANA "Well-Known URIs"
   registry [RFC8615]:

   URI Suffix:  identity-assertion-trust-policy

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

   Status:  permanent

   Related Information:  None

10.1.4.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Method Categories Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Identity
   Assertion Issuer Trust Method Categories" under the "OAuth
   Parameters" registry group.  This registry backs the category values
   used by the Trust Methods registry and referenced by the combination
   rule (Section 3.2.1).

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains a Category Name (character set
   [a-z0-9_]), a Description of the trust question the category answers,
   a Change Controller, and a Specification Document.

   Designated Expert instructions: the expert verifies that the proposed
   category answers a trust question genuinely distinct from existing
   categories (so that the cross-category AND semantics of Section 3.2.1
   remain meaningful) and that the description makes clear what evidence
   satisfies it.  Categories that merely rename or subdivide an existing
   category SHOULD be rejected.

   Initial entries:

   +===============================+===========+==========+=============+
   |Category Name                  |Description|Change    |Specification|
   |                               |           |Controller|Document     |
   +===============================+===========+==========+=============+
   |issuer_authentication          |Establishes|IETF      |This document|
   |                               |that the   |          |             |
   |                               |Assertion  |          |             |
   |                               |Issuer is  |          |             |
   |                               |an         |          |             |
   |                               |authentic, |          |             |
   |                               |recognized |          |             |
   |                               |entity     |          |             |
   +-------------------------------+-----------+----------+-------------+
   |subject_namespace_authorization|Establishes|IETF      |This document|
   |                               |that the   |          |             |
   |                               |Assertion  |          |             |
   |                               |Issuer is  |          |             |
   |                               |authorized |          |             |
   |                               |by the     |          |             |
   |                               |subject's  |          |             |
   |                               |namespace  |          |             |
   |                               |owner      |          |             |
   +-------------------------------+-----------+----------+-------------+

                                  Table 1

10.1.5.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Methods Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Identity
   Assertion Issuer Trust Methods" under the "OAuth Parameters" registry
   group.

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains:

   Identifier:  Short string used as the method value in a Trust Method
      object.  Identifiers MUST use the character set [a-z0-9_] and
      SHOULD describe the trust evaluation procedure.

   Categories:  One or more values registered in the Trust Method
      Categories registry (Section 10.1.4).

   Parameters:  Additional JSON members defined for this Trust Method,
      with their JSON types and whether each is REQUIRED or OPTIONAL.

   Change Controller:  The party responsible for change control.

   Reference:  A reference to the specification defining the Trust
      Method.

   Designated Expert instructions: the expert verifies that the
   identifier is unique and descriptive; that each listed category is
   registered; that the Trust Method's evidence and evaluation procedure
   are specified precisely enough for interoperable implementation
   (including its mapping onto the Affirmative/Negative/Indeterminate
   lookup states and any cache-lifetime bounds, per Section 4.3.3); and
   that parameter names do not collide in meaning with parameters of
   other methods in a way that would be ambiguous when methods are
   combined.

   Initial entries:

   +=================+=====================+=============+==========+=========+
   |Identifier       |Categories           |Parameters   |Change    |Reference|
   |                 |                     |             |Controller|         |
   +=================+=====================+=============+==========+=========+
   |openid_federation|issuer_authentication|trust_anchors|IETF      |This     |
   |                 |                     |(array of    |          |document |
   |                 |                     |string,      |          |         |
   |                 |                     |REQUIRED);   |          |         |
   |                 |                     |trust_marks  |          |         |
   |                 |                     |(array of    |          |         |
   |                 |                     |object,      |          |         |
   |                 |                     |OPTIONAL)    |          |         |
   +-----------------+---------------------+-------------+----------+---------+

                                  Table 2

10.1.6.  Trust Policy Members Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Identity
   Assertion Issuer Trust Policy Members" under the "OAuth Parameters"
   registry group.

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains:

   Member Name:  JSON member name used in the Trust Policy document.

   Member Description:  A short description of the member's semantics.

   Change Controller:  The party responsible for change control.

   Specification Document:  A reference to the specification defining
      the member.

   Designated Expert instructions: the expert verifies that the member
   name does not collide with an existing member, that its semantics and
   JSON type are specified, and that any decision-affecting member
   states how a consumer that does not recognize it behaves (the default
   is that unrecognized members are ignored; a member requiring fail-
   closed handling needs the criticality mechanism of Section 4.6).

   Initial entries:

   +======================================+=============+==========+=============+
   |Member Name                           |Member       |Change    |Specification|
   |                                      |Description  |Controller|Document     |
   +======================================+=============+==========+=============+
   |resource_authorization_server         |Resource     |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |Authorization|          |             |
   |                                      |Server issuer|          |             |
   |                                      |identifier   |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
   |authorization_grant_profiles_supported|Supported    |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |identity     |          |             |
   |                                      |assertion    |          |             |
   |                                      |grant profile|          |             |
   |                                      |identifiers  |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
   |subject_identifier_formats_supported  |Supported    |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |Subject      |          |             |
   |                                      |Identifier   |          |             |
   |                                      |formats      |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
   |issuer_trust_methods                  |Trust Method |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |requirements |          |             |
   |                                      |enforced for |          |             |
   |                                      |incoming     |          |             |
   |                                      |identity     |          |             |
   |                                      |assertions   |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
   |signed_policy                         |Signed JWT   |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |containing   |          |             |
   |                                      |policy       |          |             |
   |                                      |members as   |          |             |
   |                                      |claims       |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+
   |crit                                  |Names        |IETF      |This document|
   |                                      |decision-    |          |             |
   |                                      |affecting    |          |             |
   |                                      |members a    |          |             |
   |                                      |consumer MUST|          |             |
   |                                      |understand or|          |             |
   |                                      |reject the   |          |             |
   |                                      |document     |          |             |
   +--------------------------------------+-------------+----------+-------------+

                                  Table 3

10.2.  Subject Authority Extraction Procedures Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Subject
   Authority Extraction Procedures" under the "OAuth Parameters"
   registry group.

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains:

   Subject Identifier Format:  The Subject Identifier format identifier
      (typically registered in the "Security Event Subject Identifier
      Formats" registry per [RFC9493]).

   Subject Authority Form:  A short description of the form taken by the
      Subject Authority for this format (for example, "DNS domain", "URL
      host").

   Extraction Procedure:  A reference to the specification text that
      defines how the Subject Authority is computed from a Subject
      Identifier of this format.

   Designated Expert instructions: the expert verifies that the format
   has a well-defined namespace authority, that the extraction procedure
   is deterministic (two consumers compute the same Subject Authority
   from the same Subject Identifier), and that it specifies exact-match
   comparison semantics per Section 4.4.

   Future specifications that define new Subject Identifier formats are
   expected to register additional entries here when those identifiers
   have a well-defined namespace authority.

   Initial entries:

      +===========================+================+================+
      | Subject Identifier Format | Subject        | Extraction     |
      |                           | Authority Form | Procedure      |
      +===========================+================+================+
      | email                     | DNS domain     | Section 4.4 of |
      |                           |                | this document  |
      +---------------------------+----------------+----------------+

                                  Table 4

10.3.  Media Type Registrations

   IANA is requested to register the following media types in the "Media
   Types" registry, used as the JWT typ header values for the signed
   document forms (Section 4.5).

   For application/trust-policy+jwt: Type name application; Subtype name
   trust-policy+jwt; Required parameters none; Optional parameters none;
   Encoding considerations 8bit (the value is a JWT in JWS Compact
   Serialization, a sequence of base64url-encoded values separated by
   periods, per [RFC7519] Section 10.3.1); Security considerations
   Section 4.5 and the Security Considerations of this document;
   Interoperability considerations none; Published specification this
   document; Applications OAuth Resource Authorization Servers; Fragment
   identifier considerations none; Change controller IETF.

   For application/issuer-authorization-policy+jwt: as above, with
   Subtype name issuer-authorization-policy+jwt and Applications OAuth
   Subject Authorities and Resource Authorization Servers.

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

   [ID-JAG]   "Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant",
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant/>.

   [OIDF-FEDERATION]
              "OpenID Federation 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html>.

   [PSL]      "Public Suffix List", n.d., <https://publicsuffix.org/>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC5891]  Klensin, J., "Internationalized Domain Names in
              Applications (IDNA): Protocol", RFC 5891,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5891, August 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5891>.

   [RFC6749]  Hardt, D., Ed., "The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework",
              RFC 6749, DOI 10.17487/RFC6749, October 2012,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749>.

   [RFC7515]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web
              Signature (JWS)", RFC 7515, DOI 10.17487/RFC7515, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7515>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7521]  Campbell, B., Mortimore, C., Jones, M., and Y. Goland,
              "Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
              and Authorization Grants", RFC 7521, DOI 10.17487/RFC7521,
              May 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7523>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers
              (URIs)", RFC 8615, DOI 10.17487/RFC8615, May 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8615>.

   [RFC8785]  Rundgren, A., Jordan, B., and S. Erdtman, "JSON
              Canonicalization Scheme (JCS)", RFC 8785,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8785, June 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785>.

   [RFC9493]  Backman, A., Ed., Scurtescu, M., and P. Jain, "Subject
              Identifiers for Security Event Tokens", RFC 9493,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9493, December 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9493>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9728>.

11.2.  Informative References

   [DAI]      "OAuth Domain-Authorized Issuer Trust Method",
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              domain-authorized-issuer/>.

   [I-D.ietf-oauth-identity-chaining]
              "OAuth Identity and Authorization Chaining Across
              Domains", <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-
              oauth-identity-chaining/>.

   [OIDC-DISCOVERY]
              "OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-
              1_0.html>.

   [RFC5321]  Klensin, J., "Simple Mail Transfer Protocol", RFC 5321,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5321, October 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5321>.

   [RFC6530]  Klensin, J. and Y. Ko, "Overview and Framework for
              Internationalized Email", RFC 6530, DOI 10.17487/RFC6530,
              February 2012, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6530>.

   [RFC7009]  Lodderstedt, T., Ed., Dronia, S., and M. Scurtescu, "OAuth
              2.0 Token Revocation", RFC 7009, DOI 10.17487/RFC7009,
              August 2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7009>.

   [RFC7033]  Jones, P., Salgueiro, G., Jones, M., and J. Smarr,
              "WebFinger", RFC 7033, DOI 10.17487/RFC7033, September
              2013, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7033>.

   [RFC7662]  Richer, J., Ed., "OAuth 2.0 Token Introspection",
              RFC 7662, DOI 10.17487/RFC7662, October 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7662>.

   [RFC8725]  Sheffer, Y., Hardt, D., and M. Jones, "JSON Web Token Best
              Current Practices", BCP 225, RFC 8725,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8725, February 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8725>.

   [RFC9111]  Fielding, R., Ed., Nottingham, M., Ed., and J. Reschke,
              Ed., "HTTP Caching", STD 98, RFC 9111,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9111, June 2022,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9111>.

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

   [RFC9700]  Lodderstedt, T., Bradley, J., Labunets, A., and D. Fett,
              "Best Current Practice for OAuth 2.0 Security", BCP 240,
              RFC 9700, DOI 10.17487/RFC9700, January 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9700>.

Appendix A.  Design Rationale

   This appendix is non-normative.  It records the design choices that
   shaped the framework, for reviewers and implementers who want to
   understand why specific decisions were made.

A.1.  Relationship to OpenID Federation

   OpenID Federation [OIDF-FEDERATION] and this framework address
   distinct questions: federation answers "is this issuer an authentic
   ecosystem member?" via trust chains; this framework adds "is this
   issuer authorized for _this_ namespace?" via Subject Authority
   publication.  Federation membership feeds the issuer_authentication
   category through the openid_federation Trust Method
   (Section 4.3.4.1); namespace authority comes from the orthogonal
   subject_namespace_authorization category.  This document does not
   duplicate or replace federation mechanisms; it composes with them.

A.2.  Why Bounded-Depth-1 Namespace Authorization

   The subject_namespace_authorization category is bounded at depth one:
   the Subject Authority lists each authorized Assertion Issuer
   directly, with no provision for "and whoever issuer X federates
   further."  This is deliberate:

   *  A Validator never has to compute a multi-hop authorization chain
      to evaluate a namespace claim; a single customer-published policy
      names the Assertion Issuer.

   *  Revocation latency is bounded by the Subject Authority's own cache
      lifetime, not by the depth of a delegation chain.

   *  Compromise at any intermediate party (a federation operator, a
      delegated issuer) cannot expand the namespace authorization of any
      issuer the Subject Authority did not list directly.

   Federation chains for issuer authentication remain in scope under the
   issuer_authentication category; only the namespace-authorization
   graph is bounded.

Appendix B.  Future Extensions

   This appendix is non-normative.  It sketches directions intentionally
   deferred from this document; future specifications may register them.

B.1.  Additional Subject Identifier Formats

   This document registers one Subject Authority extraction procedure
   (email, Section 4.4).  The policy model accommodates additional
   Subject Identifier formats.  A future specification adding a new
   format would register a Subject Authority Extraction Procedure in
   Section 10.2 defining how a Subject Authority is computed from values
   of the new format, and either reuse domain_authorized_issuer (when
   the computed Subject Authority is a DNS-publishable domain) or
   register a new subject_namespace_authorization Trust Method.  The
   Trust Policy document format, Issuer Authorization Policy document
   format, Trust Method category structure, combination rule, and
   bounded-transitivity property remain unchanged across such
   extensions.

   Candidate formats considered as future work include URL-host Subject
   Identifiers (url_host), Decentralized Identifiers (did), and a
   subdomain-exact email variant that requires an explicit delegation
   from the registrable-domain authority to prevent subdomain takeover.

B.2.  Presented Delegation Credentials

   The subject_namespace_authorization methods defined so far are
   declarative and fetched: the Validator retrieves the Authority
   Holder's published policy at verification time.  The complementary
   shape is a presented credential: the Authority Holder signs a
   delegation ("issuer X may assert for namespace A until time T",
   optionally audience-scoped), gives it to the Assertion Issuer, and
   the issuer presents it with the assertion, in the manner of an x5c
   chain or an OpenID Federation Subordinate Statement.  Verification
   becomes offline once the Authority Holder's key is known, removing
   the per-verification lookup from the token path and enabling
   constraints (audiences, scopes, chains) a flat record cannot express.
   The costs are the mirror image: the Authority Holder needs key
   management and signing automation, key discovery recurses to a DNS-
   or HTTPS-anchored channel, and revocation requires status checking or
   short-lived credentials.  Nothing in this framework precludes such a
   method: it would register as a subject_namespace_authorization Trust
   Method whose evidence is carried in-band, satisfy the checklist in
   Section 4.3.3, and compose with existing methods under the
   combination rule.  It is deferred as an assurance-tier extension for
   deployments whose requirements justify the operational cost.

B.3.  Critical Directives for the DNS Record Form

   The JSON document forms carry a crit member defined in the base
   specification (Section 4.6), so an extension that adds a decision-
   affecting member to the Trust Policy or Issuer Authorization Policy
   can mark it critical and have already-deployed consumers honor it.
   The DNS record form has no analogous per-directive criticality
   mechanism today; its version token ([DAI]) prevents misinterpretation
   of incompatible future syntax by making unrecognized versions ignored
   (which steers the lookup to the HTTPS channel or a Negative outcome,
   not to a hard rejection).  A future extension that needs true per-
   directive fail-closed semantics in the DNS form would define a crit=
   directive and its recognition rules at that time.

B.4.  Actor Identity Trust Evaluation

   OAuth assertions can carry an act object expressing actor delegation
   (a service acting on behalf of a user).  A future extension can apply
   the trust-evaluation categories of Section 3 to actor identities: a
   Resource Authorization Server would evaluate, in addition to the
   assertion's iss and sub, whether the asserting issuer is entitled to
   attest the (act.iss, act.sub) pair.  This requires registering a
   Subject Authority extraction procedure applicable to actor-carried
   Subject Identifiers and is therefore tied to the OAuth Actor Profile
   being progressed separately.  Until that extension lands, trust
   evaluation of actor identities is governed by local policy at the
   Resource Authorization Server.

B.5.  Trust Policy Discovery

   This document specifies how a Resource Authorization Server publishes
   its Trust Policy (via authorization server metadata or protected
   resource metadata) but assumes a client or peer that already knows
   the Resource Authorization Server's identity.  In open-world
   deployments (agent runtimes, AI tools, cross-organization
   integrations), a peer may need to discover a Resource Owner's Trust
   Policy before any prior bilateral relationship exists.

   A future Trust Policy Discovery extension can let a Resource Owner
   publish a DNS-named pointer at _oauth-trust-policy.{resource-domain}
   to its Trust Policy document, mirroring the DNS-authority pattern of
   [DAI] for the resource-side.  The Resource Owner's domain becomes the
   publication channel for "where do I trust assertions from?", the dual
   of DAI's "who do I authorize to assert about me?".

   The extension is deferred because the open-world first-contact case
   is not yet a deployed need for the namespace and federation profiles
   defined here; bilateral configuration plus the metadata endpoints
   suffice for the current target deployments.

Appendix C.  Frequently Asked Questions

   This appendix is non-normative.

   *Q: I have OpenID Federation.  Why do I need DAI?*

   Federation answers "is this issuer authentically a member of an
   ecosystem?".  It does not answer "is this issuer authorized to assert
   about subjects in _my_ namespace?".  A federation member can mint an
   identity assertion naming any email domain; federation membership
   doesn't constrain which namespace.  DAI lets the namespace owner
   publish that constraint.  Section 4.3.6 shows the two together.

   *Q: What's the difference between Trust Policy and DAI?*

   Trust Policy is what a *Resource Authorization Server* publishes to
   declare what evidence it requires of an Assertion Issuer (metadata at
   /.well-known/identity-assertion-trust-policy).  DAI is what a
   *Subject Authority* publishes to declare which Assertion Issuers it
   authorizes for its namespace (records at _oauth-issuer-
   policy.{domain} and the corresponding HTTPS well-known URL).  RAS-
   published vs Subject-Authority-published.

   *Q: Why two independent trust categories?*

   To stop "federation member" from being silently treated as
   "authoritative for any namespace."  Each category answers a different
   question and the cross-category combination rule (Section 3.2.1)
   requires evidence from both when both are configured.  Conflating
   them is the bug (Section 7.3, Section 7.2).

   *Q: What if my Subject Authority cannot publish DNS TXT records?*

   Use DAI's HTTPS-only lookup mode ([DAI] §HTTPS-Only Deployment
   Variant): the Resource Authorization Server retrieves the policy from
   https://{authority}/.well-known/oauth-issuer-policy directly,
   skipping the _oauth-issuer-policy TXT lookup.  A Subject Authority
   with no DNS-named authority at all cannot participate in DAI.

   *Q: Does this work for path-bearing issuer identifiers
   (https://login.example.com/{tenant}/v2.0)?*

   Yes. domain_authorized_issuer uses case-sensitive URL string
   comparison and accepts any absolute HTTPS issuer identifier including
   paths.

   *Q: How do I revoke a delegation?*

   Remove the entry from the Issuer Authorization Policy or set
   valid_until to the past.  Revocation latency is bounded by cache
   lifetime; see [DAI] §Caching.

Appendix D.  Agent Platform IdP Walkthrough

   This appendix is non-normative.  It walks through how the framework
   prevents an unauthorized provider from impersonating users in a
   customer's email namespace.  Protection rests on a single deliberate
   choice by the customer: publishing an Issuer Authorization Policy
   that lists the specific agent platforms permitted to assert
   identities about its users.

   *Cast:* customer example.com (owns the email domain); agent platform
   https://agentprovider.example (mints ID-JAGs after federated SSO from
   the customer's primary IdP); tool provider
   https://toolprovider.example (the Resource Authorization Server); end
   user alice@example.com.

   *Publication.* The customer publishes:

   _oauth-issuer-policy.example.com. IN TXT ( "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;"
       "authority=example.com;"
       "issuer=https://agentprovider.example" )

   The tool provider publishes a Trust Policy listing
   domain_authorized_issuer.  After Alice signs in to the agent platform
   (the user-side SSO is out of scope), the agent platform mints an ID-
   JAG:

   {
     "iss": "https://agentprovider.example",
     "aud": "https://toolprovider.example",
     "exp": 1780166400, "iat": 1780166100, "jti": "b9c1...",
     "sub": "user-3f81a2",
     "email": "alice@example.com", "email_verified": true
   }

   *Verification.* The tool provider validates the ID-JAG per [ID-JAG],
   extracts the Subject Authority example.com from the email claim,
   queries _oauth-issuer-policy.example.com, confirms the iss value
   matches an authorized issuer in the policy, and proceeds with
   private_key_jwt client authentication and token issuance.

   *What this protects against.* Suppose attacker.example mints its own
   assertion claiming email: alice@example.com, email_verified: true.
   The signature validates against the attacker's own JWKS; the audience
   is correct; the email claim is self-asserted.  The tool provider
   extracts Subject Authority example.com, looks up the customer's
   policy, and finds that https://attacker.example is not in
   authorized_issuers.  The Trust Method fails; the tool provider
   rejects with invalid_grant.  The attacker's email_verified: true
   self-claim has no force; trust derives from the iss-vs-policy check,
   not from the assertion's own statements. attacker.example has no path
   to impersonate users in example.com unless the customer publishes
   them in DAI.

Appendix E.  OpenID Federation Walkthrough

   This appendix is non-normative.  It expands the high-level
   Section 4.3.6 into a concrete walkthrough including trust-chain
   validation, Trust Mark satisfaction, and federation-bound JWKS
   resolution.

   *Cast:* Resource Authorization Server https://api.resource.example;
   Federation Trust Anchor https://federation.example.org; Federation
   Intermediate https://sector.example.org (chained under the Trust
   Anchor); Assertion Issuer https://idp.partner.example (federation
   leaf holding a Level-of-Assurance-3 Trust Mark); end user
   alice@partner.example; Subject Authority partner.example.

   *Publication.* The Resource Authorization Server's Trust Policy:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.resource.example",
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods": [
       {
         "method": "openid_federation",
         "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"],
         "trust_marks": [
           {
             "id": "https://federation.example.org/marks/loa3",
             "issuer": "https://federation.example.org"
           }
         ]
       },
       { "method": "domain_authorized_issuer" }
     ]
   }

   The Assertion Issuer's federation Entity Configuration (decoded,
   illustrative) declares its authority hint and its Trust Mark:

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "authority_hints": ["https://sector.example.org"],
     "metadata": {
       "openid_provider": {
         "issuer": "https://idp.partner.example",
         "jwks_uri": "https://idp.partner.example/jwks"
       }
     },
     "trust_marks": [
       {
         "id": "https://federation.example.org/marks/loa3",
         "trust_mark": "eyJ...(JWT signed by federation.example.org)"
       }
     ]
   }

   The Federation Intermediate's Subordinate Statement about the leaf
   constrains issuer and required auth methods via metadata_policy
   ([OIDF-FEDERATION] §6):

   {
     "iss": "https://sector.example.org",
     "sub": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "metadata_policy": {
       "openid_provider": {
         "issuer": { "value": "https://idp.partner.example" },
         "jwks_uri": { "essential": true }
       }
     }
   }

   The Subject Authority publishes a DAI record:

_oauth-issuer-policy.partner.example. IN TXT ( "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;"
    "authority=partner.example;"
    "issuer=https://idp.partner.example" )

   *Verification.* When an ID-JAG arrives with iss:
   https://idp.partner.example, email: alice@partner.example, the
   Resource Authorization Server:

   1.  *issuer_authentication (openid_federation).* Walks the federation
       chain per [OIDF-FEDERATION]: fetches the leaf Entity
       Configuration, the Intermediate's Subordinate Statement about the
       leaf, and the Trust Anchor's Subordinate Statement about the
       Intermediate.  Validates all signatures, applies metadata_policy,
       and verifies the Trust Mark signature.

   2.  *Framework-specific checks (Section 4.3.4.1).* The terminal trust
       anchor matches trust_anchors; the policy-applied metadata
       declares entity type openid_provider; the loa3 Trust Mark
       satisfies the requirement; the ID-JAG signing key is taken ONLY
       from the federation-resolved JWKS, not from the assertion iss
       URL's .well-known/oauth-authorization-server.

   3.  *subject_namespace_authorization (domain_authorized_issuer).*
       Extracts partner.example from the email claim, queries _oauth-
       issuer-policy.partner.example, confirms
       https://idp.partner.example is an authorized issuer.

   4.  *Cross-category combination rule.* Both categories succeed; the
       Resource Authorization Server issues an access token.

   *Selected failure variants.* A chain not terminating at the listed
   trust anchor → invalid_grant.  A leaf without the required Trust Mark
   → invalid_grant.  A federation-resolved JWKS that doesn't match the
   ID-JAG signing key → invalid_grant (a separate JWKS at .well-known/
   oauth-authorization-server is not consulted, preventing AS-metadata
   downgrade). partner.example not listing the Assertion Issuer in DAI →
   invalid_grant even though federation membership is valid.

Appendix F.  Document History

   This appendix is non-normative and will be removed before
   publication.

   -00

   *  initial draft

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
