



Web Authorization Protocol                                 K. McGuinness
Internet-Draft                                               Independent
Intended status: Standards Track                             23 May 2026
Expires: 24 November 2026


            OAuth Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Framework
    draft-mcguinness-oauth-identity-assertion-trust-framework-latest

Abstract

   This document defines a trust policy that an OAuth authorization
   server publishes to describe the conditions under which it accepts
   identity assertion JWT authorization grants.  The policy expresses
   trust criteria, including trust methods, trust anchors, subject
   identifier formats, and grant profiles, that an Assertion Issuer has
   to satisfy.  This enables scalable issuer discovery for deployments
   backed by OpenID Federation or Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery.

   This document also defines Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery, a DNS
   and HTTPS mechanism by which the owner of a subject namespace (for
   example, an email domain) authorizes one or more Assertion Issuers
   and, through the same records, enables clients to discover the
   Assertion Issuer for an identifier in that namespace.

Discussion Venues

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Web Authorization
   Protocol Working Group mailing list (oauth@ietf.org), which is
   archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/oauth/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/mcguinness/draft-mcguinness-oauth-identity-
   assertion-trust-policy.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 24 November 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Conventions
   2.  Terminology
   3.  Trust Policy
     3.1.  Metadata Publication
     3.2.  Trust Policy Document
       3.2.1.  Members
     3.3.  Trust Methods
       3.3.1.  Trust Method Categories
       3.3.2.  openid_federation
       3.3.3.  domain_authorized_issuer
       3.3.4.  email_verification_dns
   4.  Trust Policy Processing
     4.1.  Client Processing
     4.2.  Resource Authorization Server Processing
   5.  Grant Profile and Token Bindings
     5.1.  ID-JAG
     5.2.  OAuth Actor Profile
   6.  Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery
     6.1.  Relationship to Existing DNS Policy Mechanisms
     6.2.  Subject Authority Determination
     6.3.  Issuer Authorization Policy Document
     6.4.  Publication
       6.4.1.  DNS Record
       6.4.2.  HTTPS Document URL
     6.5.  Lookup Procedure
       6.5.1.  Failure Handling
       6.5.2.  Examples
     6.6.  Verification
     6.7.  Assertion Issuer Discovery
     6.8.  Caching
     6.9.  Security Considerations
       6.9.1.  Transport Integrity
       6.9.2.  Wildcard DNS Records
       6.9.3.  Third-Party Policy Hosts
       6.9.4.  Document Authentication Limits
       6.9.5.  Scope of Authorization
       6.9.6.  Email Local-Part Is Not Authenticated by This Trust
               Method
       6.9.7.  Inline-Form Feature Limits
       6.9.8.  Single-Issuer Multi-Tenant Identity Providers
       6.9.9.  Assertion Issuer Discovery Threats
       6.9.10. Enumeration and Query Privacy
   7.  Security Considerations
     7.1.  Trust Policy Is Not An Issuer Allowlist
     7.2.  Trust Policy Does Not Replace Assertion Validation
     7.3.  Policy Document Integrity
     7.4.  Policy Disclosure
     7.5.  Downgrade Attacks
     7.6.  Subject Namespace and Audience Asymmetry
     7.7.  Email Authority Granularity
     7.8.  Trust Policy Enumeration
     7.9.  Trust Policy Caching
     7.10. Subject Authority Matching
     7.11. Observability
   8.  Privacy Considerations
   9.  IANA Considerations
     9.1.  Trust Policy Registrations
       9.1.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry
       9.1.2.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registry
       9.1.3.  Well-Known URI for Trust Policy
       9.1.4.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Methods Registry
     9.2.  Issuer Authorization Policy Registrations
       9.2.1.  Well-Known URI for Issuer Authorization Policy
       9.2.2.  Underscored DNS Node Name
       9.2.3.  Subject Authority Extraction Procedures Registry
   10. References
     10.1.  Normative References
     10.2.  Informative References
   Appendix A.  DNS-Based Domain-Authorized Issuer End-to-End Example
     A.1.  Cast
     A.2.  Publication
     A.3.  Assertion Issuer Discovery (Client Side)
     A.4.  Issuance and Token Request
     A.5.  Verification (Resource Authorization Server Side)
     A.6.  Migration Variant: Pointer Form
     A.7.  Failure Variants
   Appendix B.  Agent Platform IdP End-to-End Example
     B.1.  Cast
     B.2.  Publication
     B.3.  User-Side SSO (Prerequisite, Out of Scope)
     B.4.  Flow
     B.5.  What This Protects Against
     B.6.  Additional Failure Variants
     B.7.  Extensions
   Appendix C.  OpenID Federation End-to-End Example
     C.1.  Cast
     C.2.  Publication
     C.3.  Flow
     C.4.  Failure Variants
   Appendix D.  Related Token Contexts
     D.1.  Transaction Tokens
     D.2.  JWT Access Token Verification
   Appendix E.  Document History
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   OAuth assertion-based authorization grants [RFC7521] [RFC7523] allow
   identity-bearing assertions issued by one authorization server to be
   presented to another.  The Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant
   (ID-JAG) [ID-JAG] is one such profile.  Identity chaining and related
   deployments share a discovery problem: the Resource Authorization
   Server needs to decide whether the issuer of an identity assertion is
   acceptable for subject resolution, account linking, or delegated
   access.

   In many deployments the set of acceptable Assertion Issuers cannot be
   enumerated in advance.  It may be large, dynamic, or governed by
   external trust frameworks.  A static issuer allowlist also cannot
   express the conditions under which an Assertion Issuer is acceptable
   - for example, whether the Assertion Issuer has authority for the
   subject namespace being asserted, or whether the client presenting
   the assertion is bound to its key.

   This document defines an Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy that
   a Resource Authorization Server publishes to describe its trust
   criteria.  The Resource Authorization Server does not say "these are
   all the Assertion Issuers I trust"; it says "these are the conditions
   an Assertion Issuer must satisfy."  Conditions are evaluated by
   validating concrete evidence - a federation trust chain or a domain-
   authorized issuer record - when an assertion is presented.

   This document also defines Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery, a
   self-contained mechanism for one of those conditions, by which a
   subject namespace owner authorizes specific Assertion Issuers via DNS
   or HTTPS.  Because both verifiers and clients consume the same
   records, the mechanism doubles as an Assertion Issuer discovery
   facility for the namespace.

   This document therefore defines two JSON documents that should not be
   confused:

   *  The Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy (Section 3.2) is
      published by a Resource Authorization Server and describes the
      conditions under which it accepts identity assertions.

   *  The Issuer Authorization Policy (Section 6.3) is published by a
      Subject Authority and lists Assertion Issuers authorized to assert
      about subjects in its namespace.

   The first governs what the Resource Authorization Server accepts; the
   second supplies one kind of evidence that an Assertion Issuer can
   offer to satisfy the first.

1.1.  Conventions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  Terminology

   Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant:  An OAuth JWT
      authorization grant or grant profile in which the JWT carries
      identity information used by the Resource Authorization Server for
      subject resolution, account linking, authorization, or delegated
      access.

   Assertion Issuer:  The authorization server, identity provider, or
      other service that issues an identity-bearing assertion or token
      consumed under this framework, identified by the JWT iss claim.
      The specific local term varies by context: an authorization server
      in OAuth grant flows, an authorization server in JWT access token
      verification (Appendix D), and an "issuer" in the Email
      Verification Protocol ([WICG-EMAIL-VERIF]).  For trust evaluation
      purposes, all are Assertion Issuers and the JWT iss value serves
      as the unifying identifier.  The same string serves as the
      issuer's identifier across the discovery and federation mechanisms
      referenced by this document: the issuer value in OAuth
      Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414], the issuer value in
      OpenID Connect Discovery [OIDC-DISCOVERY], and the federation
      entity identifier in OpenID Federation [OIDF-FEDERATION].  Issuer
      identifiers are compared using the case-sensitive URL string
      comparison rules of [RFC8414] Section 2.

   Resource Authorization Server:  The authorization server that
      receives the identity assertion JWT and evaluates it as part of an
      OAuth grant.

   Trust Method:  A named procedure by which an Assertion Issuer can
      establish that it is acceptable to the Resource Authorization
      Server.  Trust Method identifiers are registered in the registry
      defined in Section 9.1.4.

   Trust Anchor:  An entity, key, federation authority, registry, or
      metadata source that the Resource Authorization Server uses to
      evaluate a Trust Method.

   Subject Identifier:  A claim or claim value identifying the asserted
      subject.  This document uses Subject Identifier format names from
      the registry established by [RFC9493] as labels in
      subject_identifier_formats_supported, even when the subject
      identifier itself is carried as a top-level JWT claim (for
      example, the email format identifies the top-level email and
      email_verified claims used by [ID-JAG]) rather than as an
      [RFC9493] Subject Identifier JSON object.  Grant profiles and
      other specifications define which carriage applies in their
      context.

   Subject Authority:  An authority for a Subject Identifier namespace,
      such as a DNS domain for an email Subject Identifier.

   Issuer Authorization Policy:  The JSON document published by a
      Subject Authority that authorizes one or more Assertion Issuers in
      the Subject Authority's namespace.  Defined in Section 6.3.

   Assertion Issuer Discovery:  The process by which a client determines
      which Assertion Issuer or authorization server is authoritative
      for a subject identifier's namespace.

3.  Trust Policy

3.1.  Metadata Publication

   A Resource Authorization Server publishes the location of its
   Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy in its authorization server
   metadata [RFC8414] using the following member:

   identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri  OPTIONAL.  HTTPS URI identifying
      the Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy document.

   A Protected Resource that publishes OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource
   Metadata [RFC9728] MAY include the same member to advertise the
   policy applied by its Resource Authorization Server.  Clients that
   obtain the URI from Protected Resource Metadata MUST verify that the
   policy document's resource_authorization_server value identifies an
   authorization server listed in the Protected Resource's
   authorization_servers array.  If the same member appears in both
   metadata documents, the authorization server metadata value is
   authoritative.

   A Resource Authorization Server MAY additionally publish the trust
   policy document at the well-known URI registered in Section 9.1.3.
   If both the metadata member and the well-known URI are available and
   identify different documents, the metadata member is authoritative.

   Example authorization server metadata:

   {
     "issuer": "https://api.resource.example",
     "token_endpoint": "https://api.resource.example/token",
     "grant_types_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer"
     ],
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri":
       "https://api.resource.example/.well-known/identity-assertion-trust-policy"
   }

3.2.  Trust Policy Document

   The Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy is a JSON document served
   over HTTPS with media type application/json.  The document MUST be a
   JSON object.  Consumers MUST ignore unrecognized members unless
   otherwise specified.  Consumers MUST reject a policy document that is
   not syntactically valid JSON, whose top-level value is not an object,
   or whose required members are absent or have the wrong JSON type.

   Example:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.resource.example",
     "grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods_supported": [
       {
         "method": "openid_federation",
         "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"]
       },
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer",
         "dns_discovery": true
       }
     ]
   }

3.2.1.  Members

   resource_authorization_server  REQUIRED.  The issuer identifier of
      the Resource Authorization Server.  MUST exactly match the
      authorization server metadata issuer value [RFC8414].

   grant_profiles_supported  REQUIRED.  JSON array of identity assertion
      grant profile identifiers supported by this policy.  Each value
      MUST match a profile identifier in the authorization server
      metadata authorization_grant_profiles_supported parameter, where
      present.

   subject_identifier_formats_supported  OPTIONAL.  JSON array of
      Subject Identifier format names that the Resource Authorization
      Server accepts.  Values are defined by [RFC9493], by grant profile
      specifications, or by other specifications.  This member applies
      to all Trust Methods; an individual Trust Method MAY constrain the
      formats it evaluates (for example, domain_authorized_issuer
      evaluates only formats registered in Section 9.2.3).

   issuer_trust_methods_supported  REQUIRED.  Non-empty JSON array of
      Trust Method objects (see Section 3.3).  An Assertion Issuer is
      acceptable when it satisfies the Trust Method combination rule in
      Section 4.2.  Local policy MAY impose additional requirements for
      specific clients, subjects, or scopes; see Section 7.5.

3.3.  Trust Methods

   Each Trust Method object has a method member containing a Trust
   Method identifier registered in Section 9.1.4, together with any
   additional members required by that identifier.  Each Trust Method
   object MUST be a JSON object and MUST contain exactly one method
   member whose value is a string.  Unrecognized Trust Method
   identifiers and unrecognized members within a recognized object MUST
   be ignored, except when required by a future extension's criticality
   mechanism.  For a recognized Trust Method identifier, consumers MUST
   reject the Trust Method object as malformed if any member required by
   that identifier is absent, has the wrong JSON type, or has a value
   outside the constraints defined for that identifier.  Malformed Trust
   Method objects are not usable.  If no recognized and well-formed
   Trust Method object remains after this processing, the policy does
   not identify any usable issuer trust method.  This document defines
   three Trust Methods, presented below grouped by category.  The
   issuer_authentication method is Section 3.3.2; the
   subject_namespace_authorization methods are Section 3.3.3 and
   Section 3.3.4.

3.3.1.  Trust Method Categories

   Trust Methods answer two distinct security questions about an
   Assertion Issuer:

   issuer_authentication  Does the entity identified by the JWT iss
      claim authentically belong to a recognized ecosystem?  Federation
      membership and trust-mark issuance answer this question.

   subject_namespace_authorization  Is this Assertion Issuer entitled to
      assert about subjects in the namespace named by the assertion's
      Subject Identifier?  An attestation from the namespace owner
      answers this question.

   Each Trust Method identifier is registered in Section 9.1.4 with one
   or more category values.  A trust policy MAY list methods from one or
   both categories.  The combination rule in Section 4.2 requires the
   Assertion Issuer to satisfy at least one Trust Method from EACH
   category that is both present in the policy and applicable to the
   assertion.  The issuer_authentication category applies
   unconditionally.  The subject_namespace_authorization category
   applies when the assertion carries a Subject Identifier; if the
   Subject Authority cannot be determined, the assertion fails closed as
   described in Section 4.2.  Within a single category, OR-semantics
   apply: satisfying any one listed method in that category is
   sufficient.

   This separation prevents an Assertion Issuer that is authenticated by
   federation or trust-mark membership from being treated as
   automatically authorized to assert about subjects in a namespace the
   Assertion Issuer has no authority over.  Deployments that accept
   identity assertions about namespace-bound subjects (for example,
   email-domain users) SHOULD list at least one
   subject_namespace_authorization method in their trust policy in
   addition to any issuer_authentication methods.

   The set of categories required for an assertion to be accepted is
   publisher-driven: it is exactly the set of categories represented by
   recognized Trust Method objects listed in
   issuer_trust_methods_supported.  Future specifications MAY register
   additional categories, but adding a category to the registry does not
   impose new requirements on existing trust policies that do not list
   methods from that category.

3.3.2.  openid_federation

   Category: issuer_authentication.

   The openid_federation method indicates that the Assertion Issuer is
   acceptable if it can establish a valid OpenID Federation
   [OIDF-FEDERATION] trust chain to one of the listed trust anchors.

   {
     "method": "openid_federation",
     "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"]
   }

   trust_anchors  REQUIRED.  Non-empty JSON array of OpenID Federation
      trust anchor entity identifiers.

   The Resource Authorization Server MUST validate the Assertion
   Issuer's federation trust chain according to [OIDF-FEDERATION].  The
   terminal trust anchor of the validated chain MUST exactly match one
   of the listed trust_anchors values using the entity identifier
   comparison rules of OpenID Federation.  The Resource Authorization
   Server MUST verify that the Assertion Issuer's federation entity
   configuration declares an entity type appropriate for an OAuth
   authorization server or OpenID provider.

3.3.3.  domain_authorized_issuer

   Category: subject_namespace_authorization.

   The domain_authorized_issuer method indicates that the Assertion
   Issuer is acceptable if the Subject Authority identified by the
   assertion's Subject Identifier authorizes the Assertion Issuer to
   assert identities in that namespace, as defined in Section 6.

   Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery, defined in Section 6, is the
   mechanism by which a Subject Authority publishes its authorized
   Assertion Issuers.  A Subject Authority publishes a DNS TXT record at
   _oauth-issuer-policy.{authority} (carrying authorized issuers inline,
   or pointing to a richer HTTPS-hosted document) or an HTTPS JSON
   document at .well-known/oauth-issuer-policy on the Subject
   Authority's host.  The full mechanism — record syntax, lookup
   procedure, failure handling, and security considerations - is
   specified in Section 6.

   This Trust Method supports path-bearing issuer identifiers (for
   example, https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/v2.0)
   directly: the authorized_issuers[].issuer field accepts any absolute
   HTTPS URL issuer identifier, and case-sensitive comparison against
   the JWT iss claim distinguishes tenants under the same host.  Single-
   issuer multi-tenant Identity Providers that carry the tenant in a
   top-level JWT claim (rather than in the issuer URL) are also
   supported, with the caveats described in Section 6.9.8.

   {
     "method": "domain_authorized_issuer",
     "dns_discovery": true
   }

   dns_discovery  OPTIONAL.  Boolean.  If true, the Resource
      Authorization Server consults DNS-based discovery (see
      Section 6.4.1), accepting both inline and pointer forms.  Defaults
      to false, in which case only the HTTPS well-known location (see
      Section 6.4.2) is used.  This flag governs verifier behavior only;
      Assertion Issuer discovery clients (Section 6.7) always consult
      DNS regardless of this flag.

3.3.4.  email_verification_dns

   Category: subject_namespace_authorization.

   The email_verification_dns method indicates that the Assertion Issuer
   is acceptable if the Subject Authority of the assertion's email
   Subject Identifier publishes a DNS TXT record per the Email
   Verification Protocol [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] naming the Assertion Issuer.
   This Trust Method exists to interoperate with deployments that
   already publish a _email-verification.{domain} record; it lets a
   Resource Authorization Server honor those records without requiring
   the Subject Authority to also publish an _oauth-issuer-policy record.

   {
     "method": "email_verification_dns"
   }

   This Trust Method has no parameters.

   When evaluated, the Resource Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Verify that the assertion's Subject Identifier format is email.
       If not, the Trust Method is not satisfied by this assertion.

   2.  Determine the Subject Authority A from the email Subject
       Identifier per the email extraction procedure in Section 6.2
       (registrable domain after @).

   3.  Query the DNS TXT resource record set at _email-verification.{A}.
       Apply the DNS response classification of Section 6.5 (step 1).

   4.  If negative-authoritative or indeterminate, the Trust Method is
       not satisfied; the indeterminate outcome MUST be treated per the
       failure-handling rules of Section 6.5.1 (a verifier MUST reject
       the assertion unless a fresh cached result is available).

   5.  If affirmative, parse each record per [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] and
       collect the iss= values.  The set of authorized issuer
       identifiers is the union of those values.

   6.  Compare the JWT iss claim to the parsed iss= values.
       [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] uses bare hostnames (for example,
       issuer.example) while OAuth issuer identifiers are HTTPS URLs
       that MAY carry a path.  The Resource Authorization Server MUST
       parse the JWT iss as an absolute HTTPS URL and treat the record's
       bare hostname H as matching only when the JWT iss has scheme
       https, host equal to H (case-insensitive ASCII after IDNA
       conversion per [RFC5891]), default port (or no port component),
       and an empty path (or the path /).  Any other shape

       *  non-default port, non-empty path component, query string, or
          fragment - does not match.  Consequently, this Trust Method is
          interoperable only with Assertion Issuers whose identifier is
          the bare-origin form https://{H} (or https://{H}/).
          Deployments whose Assertion Issuer identifiers carry paths
          (for example, https://login.example/{tenant}) cannot be
          authorized by this Trust Method; they SHOULD use
          domain_authorized_issuer (Section 3.3.3), which expresses
          full-URL issuer identifiers in the authorized_issuers[].issuer
          field.

   7.  Apply the cross-category combination rule of Section 4.2.

   A Subject Authority MAY publish both an _email-verification record
   and an _oauth-issuer-policy record.  When a Resource Authorization
   Server's trust policy lists both domain_authorized_issuer and
   email_verification_dns as subject_namespace_authorization Trust
   Methods, the cross-category combination rule of Section 4.2 treats
   them as alternatives within the same category (OR-semantics):
   satisfying either is sufficient.

4.  Trust Policy Processing

   The trust policy governs whether an Assertion Issuer's identity
   assertion is acceptable to the Resource Authorization Server.  It
   does not, by itself, authorize any particular access, scope, role, or
   attribute.  The Resource Authorization Server's local policy
   continues to determine, for an accepted assertion, which scopes are
   granted, which subject claims are honored for account linking, and
   which local authorization decisions follow.  The trust policy is
   necessary but not sufficient: passing trust policy evaluation only
   means the Resource Authorization Server is willing to consider the
   assertion as input to its access-control logic.

4.1.  Client Processing

   A client that wants to obtain an identity assertion JWT for a
   Resource Authorization Server:

   1.  Discovers the Resource Authorization Server metadata [RFC8414].

   2.  Confirms that the desired grant profile is supported by checking
       authorization_grant_profiles_supported.

   3.  Fetches the identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri document.

   4.  Determines whether an available Assertion Issuer can satisfy the
       Trust Method combination rule in Section 4.2.  For namespace-
       bound Subject Identifiers, this usually means satisfying both an
       issuer_authentication method (such as federation membership) and
       a subject_namespace_authorization method (such as authorization
       by the Subject Authority).

   5.  Determines whether the Assertion Issuer can produce a Subject
       Identifier in a format listed in
       subject_identifier_formats_supported, if that member is present,
       and required by the applicable grant profile.

   6.  Requests an identity assertion JWT from the selected Assertion
       Issuer.

   The client MUST NOT treat the trust policy as a guarantee that a
   particular assertion will be accepted.  The Resource Authorization
   Server always applies local policy at token request time.

4.2.  Resource Authorization Server Processing

   When evaluating an identity assertion JWT presented in a token
   request, the Resource Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Select and parse the trust policy that applies to the token
       request.  If the policy document is malformed or no recognized
       Trust Method is usable, reject the assertion.

   2.  Validate the assertion according to the applicable grant profile,
       including iss, signature, aud, exp, iat, replay protection, and
       any client binding requirements defined by the profile.

   3.  Verify that the applicable grant profile is listed in
       grant_profiles_supported.

   4.  If subject_identifier_formats_supported is present, verify that
       the Subject Identifier format used by the assertion is listed,
       unless the applicable grant profile defines a different format
       selection rule.

   5.  Verify that the Assertion Issuer identified by iss satisfies the
       Trust Method combination rule:

       a.  Partition the recognized Trust Method objects in
       issuer_trust_methods_supported by category (see Section 3.3.1).
       A Trust Method registered with multiple categories belongs to
       each.

       b.  For each category that is BOTH present in the partitioned
       policy AND applicable to the assertion, the Assertion Issuer MUST
       satisfy at least one Trust Method from that category.  An
       issuer_authentication method applies unconditionally.  A
       subject_namespace_authorization method applies when the assertion
       carries a Subject Identifier.

       c.  If the assertion carries a Subject Identifier and the policy
       contains a recognized subject_namespace_authorization Trust
       Method, but no Subject Authority can be determined for the
       assertion per Section 6.2 or an equivalent registry, the Resource
       Authorization Server MUST reject the assertion.  The Resource
       Authorization Server MUST NOT treat the
       subject_namespace_authorization category as inapplicable in this
       case.

       d.  If no Trust Method object in the policy is both recognized,
       present in a category, and applicable to the assertion, the
       policy provides no trust evaluation basis for this assertion; the
       Resource Authorization Server MUST reject the assertion.  This
       case can arise when, for example, the policy lists only
       subject_namespace_authorization methods and the assertion does
       not carry a Subject Identifier.

       e.  Local policy MAY require satisfaction of additional Trust
       Methods for specific clients, subjects, or scopes.

       When the policy lists only issuer_authentication methods and the
       assertion carries a namespace-bound Subject Identifier, the
       Resource Authorization Server SHOULD reject the assertion or
       apply a stricter local policy, since federation membership alone
       does not establish authority over a particular subject namespace.

   6.  Apply account-linking, consent, authorization, risk, and local
       business policy.  Client authentication, sender-constraining, and
       client identifier resolution are governed by the applicable grant
       profile and OAuth client-authentication mechanisms; they are not
       specified by this trust framework.

   Failure to satisfy issuer trust, subject identifier, or assertion
   claim requirements in the trust policy MUST result in an OAuth
   invalid_grant error unless another error is defined by the applicable
   grant profile.

5.  Grant Profile and Token Bindings

   The trust policy structure and Trust Method machinery defined in the
   preceding sections are profile-agnostic.  This section provides
   bindings to the grant profiles and token contexts in which this
   document expects to be deployed.

   The bindings — ID-JAG (Section 5.1) and the OAuth Actor Profile
   (Section 5.2) — are normative for deployments using those features.
   Appendix D describes how the same machinery applies informally to
   other token contexts (Transaction Tokens, JWT access tokens).

5.1.  ID-JAG

   This section provides the binding for ID-JAG [ID-JAG]; other grant
   profiles would supply analogous bindings, naming their grant profile
   identifier, their Subject Identifier-bearing claim, and any profile-
   specific JWT claims that participate in Trust Method evaluation.

   For ID-JAG [ID-JAG], grant_profiles_supported contains the value
   urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag.  When the trust policy
   requires subject identifier evaluation, the Resource Authorization
   Server applies the policy to the email attribution carried by the ID-
   JAG.  The email is taken from the top-level email claim, accompanied
   by email_verified=true, per Section 6.2.

   In addition to the processing in Section 4.2, the Resource
   Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Validate the ID-JAG according to [ID-JAG], including iss,
       signature, aud, exp, iat, jti, and sub.

   2.  Verify that the ID-JAG aud identifies the Resource Authorization
       Server.

   3.  Verify that the email attribution carried by the ID-JAG, when
       present or required, uses a Subject Identifier format registered
       in subject_identifier_formats_supported, if that trust policy
       member is present.

   4.  Use the email attribution only for subject resolution and Subject
       Authority evaluation.  The Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT
       treat the mere presence or value of the email claim as proof that
       the ID-JAG issuer is authoritative for the subject; issuer
       acceptability is established only by evaluating the Trust
       Methods.

   If the domain_authorized_issuer Trust Method is used with ID-JAG, the
   Subject Authority is determined from the top-level email/
   email_verified claims per Section 6.2 and the Resource Authorization
   Server validates the delegation using the procedure in Section 6.

5.2.  OAuth Actor Profile

   The OAuth Actor Profile [ACTOR-PROFILE] defines a standardized
   representation of delegated actors carried in identity assertions,
   JWT access tokens, and Transaction Tokens through an act object with
   members including act.iss, act.sub, and (optionally) act.sub_profile.
   The actor profile establishes that the token issuer's authority to
   assert a specific (act.iss, act.sub) actor identifier pair is not
   automatic and must be evaluated against a trust framework, but defers
   the framework itself to local policy or bilateral agreement.

   This section binds the Trust Method machinery of this document to
   that framework.  The binding applies when a presented assertion or
   token carries an act object and the Resource Authorization Server's
   trust policy is in scope for the assertion's grant profile.

   When evaluating such an assertion, in addition to the processing in
   Section 4.2, the Resource Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Treat the actor as a namespace-bound subject when act.sub carries
       a Subject Identifier format with a registered Subject Authority
       extraction procedure (Section 9.2.3).  The format MAY be carried
       in act.sub_profile or be evident from the structure of act.sub;
       in either case the determination uses the registered extraction
       procedure unchanged.

   2.  If the trust policy lists one or more
       subject_namespace_authorization Trust Methods, evaluate at least
       one such method with act.sub substituted for the Subject
       Identifier and the assertion's top-level iss (the token issuer)
       substituted for the Assertion Issuer being authorized.  This
       answers the question "is this token issuer entitled to assert
       this actor identifier?"

   3.  Apply the cross-category combination rule of Section 4.2
       unchanged. issuer_authentication methods evaluate the token's iss
       and are not affected by the presence of an actor object.

   When act.iss and iss are the same string, the actor profile treats
   the token as not expressing delegation.  The
   subject_namespace_authorization evaluation in step 2 still applies to
   act.sub: an Assertion Issuer asserting an actor in its own claimed
   namespace MUST still appear in the Issuer Authorization Policy for
   that namespace if a policy exists, otherwise self-issued actor
   assertions cannot be evaluated and MUST be rejected unless local
   policy explicitly accepts them, consistent with [ACTOR-PROFILE].

   When act.iss and iss differ, the assertion expresses cross-namespace
   delegation.  The Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT substitute
   act.iss for iss in any Trust Method evaluation; trust in an Assertion
   Issuer is always trust in the entity that signed the token. act.iss
   is interpreted only as a namespace-context identifier for the actor,
   consistent with [ACTOR-PROFILE].

   This binding establishes only issuer trust for the actor identity.
   Whether the actor identified by (act.iss, act.sub) is permitted to
   act on behalf of the token's subject for a specific scope or resource
   remains a local authorization decision, consistent with the scope
   rules of [ACTOR-PROFILE].

6.  Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery

   A Subject Authority publishes an Issuer Authorization Policy that
   authorizes one or more Assertion Issuers to assert identities in the
   Subject Authority's namespace.  The same policy answers two related
   questions about a subject namespace such as an email domain:

   1.  *Verification.* Given an identity assertion, is this issuer
       authorized to assert identities for this subject?

   2.  *Assertion Issuer discovery.* Given a subject identifier, which
       authorization server should I direct the user (or my own request)
       to in order to obtain an assertion?

   Verification is defined in Section 6.6.  Assertion Issuer discovery
   is defined in Section 6.7.  Both consumers use the same records and
   the same document; the difference is the direction of use.

   This section is structured as a self-contained module so that it can
   be extracted into a separate specification in the future without
   breaking changes to existing implementations.  Section anchors use
   the dii- prefix to make extraction mechanical.

6.1.  Relationship to Existing DNS Policy Mechanisms

   This subsection is non-normative.

   Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery follows the same general
   architecture as several existing IETF mechanisms in which control of
   a DNS namespace is used to publish security policy:

   *  CAA [RFC8659] lets a DNS domain holder authorize which
      Certification Authorities are permitted to issue certificates for
      the domain.  This document applies the same authorization pattern
      to Assertion Issuers.

   *  MTA-STS [RFC8461] uses DNS to signal policy state and HTTPS to
      host richer policy content.  This document uses the same DNS-plus-
      HTTPS split while allowing an inline DNS form for simple
      delegations.

   *  ACME [RFC8555] uses DNS and HTTPS challenges to prove current
      control of a domain.  This document is not a challenge-response
      protocol; it publishes a standing authorization policy that
      verifiers can evaluate when an assertion is presented.

   *  The Email Verification Protocol [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] (WICG) lets an
      email domain delegate verification authority to a specific issuer
      via a DNS TXT record at _email-verification.{email_domain} plus
      issuer metadata at a well-known URL.  The trust question it
      answers ("which issuer can verify emails for this domain?") is a
      special case of the question this document answers ("which
      Assertion Issuer is authorized for this subject namespace?").  The
      email_verification_dns Trust Method (Section 3.3.4) lets verifiers
      honor existing Email Verification Protocol records without
      requiring a parallel _oauth-issuer-policy record.  Because the
      Email Verification Protocol is a non-IETF specification still
      under active development, interoperability for the
      email_verification_dns Trust Method depends on the stability of
      [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF]; implementations should track that
      specification for breaking changes.

   These precedents motivate the use of an underscored DNS owner name, a
   versioned TXT record, an HTTPS well-known URL, explicit malformed-
   result handling, and cache-lifetime guidance.

6.2.  Subject Authority Determination

   The Subject Authority associated with a Subject Identifier is
   determined as registered in Section 9.2.3.  Initial extractions:

   email  The Subject Authority is derived from the assertion's top-
      level email claim, which MUST be accompanied by a top-level
      email_verified claim with the boolean value true.  If the
      email_verified claim is absent or has any value other than true,
      the email extraction does not apply.

      Consumers MUST reject an email claim value that does not contain
      exactly one @ character or whose domain part is empty.  The local-
      part is not used.  The domain is then normalized to the
      registrable domain ("eTLD+1") using a current Public Suffix List
      [PSL]: the Subject Authority is the shortest suffix of the email's
      domain that is not itself a public suffix.  The result is
      converted to A-label form per [RFC5891] and compared using case-
      insensitive ASCII comparison.  Normalization to the registrable
      domain is consistent with the email-domain handling in the Email
      Verification Protocol [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] and prevents an attacker
      who controls a subdomain (for example, via subdomain takeover)
      from publishing a Subject Authority record that would override the
      legitimate record at the registrable domain.  Consumers MUST
      reject an email whose domain is itself a public suffix (no
      registrable domain exists).

   Subject identifier shapes not registered for this purpose MUST NOT be
   evaluated under this Trust Method; the Resource Authorization Server
   MUST reject the assertion with an OAuth invalid_grant error.

6.3.  Issuer Authorization Policy Document

   The Issuer Authorization Policy is a JSON document served over HTTPS
   with media type application/json.  The document MUST be a JSON
   object.  It has the following members:

   subject_authority  REQUIRED.  String.  The Subject Authority
      identifier this policy applies to.  Consumers MUST verify this
      value matches the Subject Authority computed in Section 6.2 after
      applying the comparison rules for that Subject Authority form.

   authorized_issuers  REQUIRED.  Non-empty JSON array of authorized
      issuer objects.  Each object has:

      issuer  REQUIRED.  String.  The Assertion Issuer identifier.  For
         OAuth authorization server issuer identifiers, this value MUST
         be an absolute HTTPS URL with no fragment component.  The URL
         MAY contain a path component; if the path is empty it is
         equivalent only to an issuer identifier that uses the same
         string form according to the applicable profile's issuer
         comparison rules.  Query components are NOT RECOMMENDED because
         many issuer metadata profiles do not use them.  The value is
         compared to the JWT iss claim using the issuer identifier
         comparison rules of the applicable assertion grant profile.
         For JWT authorization grants that use OAuth authorization
         server issuer identifiers, this is case-sensitive string
         comparison, consistent with [RFC8414].

      subject_identifier_formats  OPTIONAL.  JSON array of Subject
         Identifier format names ([RFC9493]) this Assertion Issuer is
         authorized for.  If omitted, the Assertion Issuer is authorized
         for any format that resolves to this Subject Authority.

      valid_from  OPTIONAL.  RFC 3339 date-time.  The delegation MUST
         NOT be treated as valid before this time.  Consumers MAY apply
         a small clock skew tolerance (no more than 5 minutes) when
         comparing against the current time, consistent with conventions
         for JWT nbf ([RFC7519] Section 4.1.5).

      valid_until  OPTIONAL.  RFC 3339 date-time.  The delegation MUST
         NOT be treated as valid at or after this time.  Consumers MAY
         apply a small clock skew tolerance (no more than 5 minutes)
         when comparing against the current time.

   last_updated  OPTIONAL.  RFC 3339 date-time at which the policy was
      last published.

   Unrecognized members MUST be ignored.  Consumers MUST reject a policy
   whose subject_authority member is absent or is not a string, or whose
   subject_authority value does not match the computed Subject
   Authority.  Consumers MUST reject a policy whose authorized_issuers
   member is absent, empty, not an array, or contains an element that is
   not an object.  Consumers MUST reject an authorized issuer object
   that lacks a string issuer member or whose issuer member is not a
   syntactically valid issuer identifier for the applicable assertion
   grant profile.  For OAuth authorization server issuer identifiers, a
   non-HTTPS URL, a relative URL, or a URL with a fragment component is
   malformed.  Consumers MUST reject a subject_identifier_formats value
   that is present but is not an array of strings.  Consumers MUST
   reject valid_from, valid_until, and last_updated values that are
   present but are not valid RFC 3339 date-times.

   Example:

   {
     "subject_authority": "example.com",
     "authorized_issuers": [
       {
         "issuer": "https://idp.example.com",
         "subject_identifier_formats": ["email"],
         "valid_until": "2027-01-01T00:00:00Z"
       }
     ],
     "last_updated": "2026-05-01T00:00:00Z"
   }

6.4.  Publication

   A Subject Authority publishes the Issuer Authorization Policy in two
   channels:

   *  A DNS TXT record (see Section 6.4.1), supporting either inline
      authorization of Assertion Issuers or a pointer to a JSON document
      hosted on any HTTPS endpoint.

   *  A JSON document at an HTTPS well-known URL on the Subject
      Authority's own host (see Section 6.4.2).

   A Subject Authority MAY use either channel or both.  Consumers locate
   the policy using the procedure in Section 6.5.

   Most deployments find DNS publication easier than HTTPS publication.
   Hosting the HTTPS well-known URL requires control of the Subject
   Authority's apex web origin, which is often dedicated to a marketing
   site behind a CDN.  Subject Authorities that need richer policy than
   the inline DNS form supports (validity windows, format restrictions,
   multiple ordered issuers) are encouraged to use the DNS pointer form,
   which lets the policy document live on any HTTPS endpoint under
   separate operational control.

6.4.1.  DNS Record

   The Subject Authority publishes one or more DNS TXT records at
   _oauth-issuer-policy.{A}, where {A} is the Subject Authority rendered
   as a DNS name.  Internationalized names are converted to A-labels per
   [RFC5891] before the prefix is prepended.  DNS lookup names are
   formed without a trailing dot for comparison purposes; the wire-
   format root label is not part of the Subject Authority value.

   The string segments of a TXT record ([RFC1035]) are concatenated
   without separator and interpreted as UTF-8 text.

   A record is _recognized_ if it begins with the version directive
   v=oauth-issuer-policy1 (case-sensitive), optionally followed by
   trailing whitespace and a ; separator.  Records that do not begin
   with a supported version directive MUST be ignored.

   The remainder of a recognized record is a sequence of name=value
   directives separated by ;. Parsing rules:

   *  Whitespace (space and horizontal tab) immediately before and after
      each directive is ignored.  Whitespace inside a value is not.

   *  Directive names are case-insensitive ASCII.  Values are case-
      sensitive and preserved as written.

   *  A directive splits into name and value at the first =. Subsequent
      = characters are part of the value.

   *  The value runs to the next ; or end of record.  The character ;
      MUST NOT appear in a value; URLs containing ; MUST be percent-
      encoded.

   *  CR, LF, and NUL MUST NOT appear in a value.

   *  Unrecognized directives MUST be ignored.

   The parsing rules above are summarized in the following ABNF
   [RFC5234] for implementer convenience; the prose above is normative
   if any disagreement exists.

   record       = version *( ";" directive ) [ ";" ]
   version      = "v=oauth-issuer-policy1"
   directive    = OWS name "=" value OWS
   name         = 1*( ALPHA / DIGIT / "_" / "-" )
   value        = *vchar-no-semi
   vchar-no-semi = %x21-3A / %x3C-7E
                     ; printable ASCII minus ";" and excluding
                     ; CR, LF, NUL
   OWS          = *( SP / HTAB )

   The following directives are defined:

   authority=A  REQUIRED.  The Subject Authority identifier this record
      claims to bind.  Consumers MUST normalize this value to A-label
      form per [RFC5891], then verify it matches the Subject Authority
      computed from the query name (which is already in A-label form)
      using the case-insensitive ASCII comparison rules in Section 6.2.
      Records whose authority= value does not match MUST be ignored.
      The publisher's authority= value MAY be written in U-label or
      A-label form; consumers perform the conversion.

   uri=URL  OPTIONAL.  An HTTPS URL identifying an Issuer Authorization
      Policy document.  The URL MAY be on a different host than A.  MUST
      use the https:// scheme and MUST NOT contain a fragment component.

   issuer=ISSUER_URL  OPTIONAL.  An Assertion Issuer identifier
      authorized by the Subject Authority for A.  For OAuth
      authorization server issuer identifiers, the value MUST be an
      absolute HTTPS URL and MUST NOT contain a fragment component.  MAY
      appear multiple times within a record and across records.

   A recognized record MUST contain at least one uri= directive or at
   least one issuer= directive.  Recognized records containing neither
   MUST be treated as malformed (see Section 6.5.1).

   A Subject Authority MUST publish records for at most one version of
   this mechanism at a time.  This document defines only oauth-issuer-
   policy1.  Future versions that are not understood by a consumer are
   ignored by the recognition rule above.

6.4.2.  HTTPS Document URL

   The default Issuer Authorization Policy URL is:

   https://{A}/.well-known/oauth-issuer-policy

   where {A} is the Subject Authority value rendered as a host (A-label
   form for internationalized names).  Consumers fetch this URL using
   HTTPS with TLS server authentication and interpret the response body
   as the JSON document defined in Section 6.3.

   A URL obtained from a DNS uri= directive is fetched the same way; the
   host serving the URL is responsible for TLS server authentication of
   itself, not of A.

6.5.  Lookup Procedure

   To retrieve the Issuer Authorization Policy for a Subject Authority
   A, a consumer performs the following steps.  The procedure is shared
   by Resource Authorization Servers performing verification
   (Section 6.6) and clients performing Assertion Issuer discovery
   (Section 6.7), with one asymmetry noted at the end.

   1.  If DNS is to be consulted (see asymmetry below), query the DNS
       TXT resource record set at _oauth-issuer-policy.{A}. Classify the
       response as:

       negative-authoritative  NXDOMAIN, or NOERROR with an empty answer
          section or with no recognized records after parsing.

       indeterminate  SERVFAIL, REFUSED, timeout, truncation with no
          successful retry, or any other failure that prevents a
          definitive negative result.

       affirmative  NOERROR with at least one recognized record after
          parsing.

   2.  If the DNS response is affirmative:

       a.  Discard recognized records whose authority= directive does
       not match A under the Subject Authority comparison rules in
       Section 6.2.  If any recognized record is missing an authority=
       directive, treat the response as malformed.  If all recognized
       records are discarded because of authority= mismatch, treat the
       response as malformed.

       Before continuing, validate the remaining recognized records
       against the directive rules in Section 6.4.1.  This includes
       rejecting malformed uri= or issuer= values and records with
       neither uri= nor issuer=. Any such condition is a malformed
       outcome.

       b.  If any remaining record contains a uri= directive:

       *  If more than one distinct uri= value is present across the
          remaining records, treat as malformed.

       *  Otherwise fetch the JSON policy from that URL per
          Section 6.4.2.  The fetched document is the Issuer
          Authorization Policy.  All issuer= directives across all
          records are ignored.

       c.  Otherwise (no uri= present), construct a virtual Issuer
       Authorization Policy with subject_authority set to A and one
       entry in authorized_issuers for each distinct issuer= value
       across the remaining records, in the order first seen.  Entries
       have no subject_identifier_formats, valid_from, or valid_until.
       The virtual policy is processed identically to one fetched over
       HTTPS, except that its cache lifetime is derived from DNS TTLs as
       described in Section 6.8.

   3.  If the DNS response is negative-authoritative (or DNS was not
       consulted), fetch the policy from the default HTTPS well-known
       URL per Section 6.4.2.

   4.  If the DNS response is indeterminate, discovery has failed.
       Consumers MUST NOT fall back to HTTPS, since an attacker who
       suppresses DNS responses could otherwise force the consumer onto
       a path the attacker has compromised separately.

   *Asymmetry between verifier and Assertion Issuer discovery client:*

   *  A Resource Authorization Server consults DNS only when its trust
      policy advertises dns_discovery: true (Section 3.3.3).  When
      dns_discovery is absent or false, the verifier skips step 1 and
      retrieves only from the HTTPS well-known URL.

   *  An Assertion Issuer discovery client always consults DNS.  The
      dns_discovery flag governs verifier behavior only; a Subject
      Authority that publishes solely via DNS still expects clients to
      find it.

6.5.1.  Failure Handling

   Outcomes other than retrieval of a valid policy are categorized as:

   no-policy  A negative-authoritative DNS response combined with an
      HTTPS retrieval that yields HTTP 404, 410, or equivalent.  A
      verifier MUST reject the assertion.  A client reports that no
      policy exists.

   malformed  A DNS recognized record missing authority=, with a
      mismatched authority= when no recognized record for the same query
      name has a matching authority=, with neither uri= nor issuer=
      after parsing, with multiple distinct uri= values, with a
      malformed uri= or issuer= directive, or otherwise unparseable; or
      an HTTPS response with an unsupported media type, an entity body
      larger than the consumer's configured maximum, an HTTP status
      other than success, redirect, 404, 410, or 5xx, or a redirect loop
      or redirect target that is not HTTPS; or an HTTPS response body
      that is not a syntactically valid Issuer Authorization Policy
      document; or a JSON policy whose subject_authority does not match
      A.  Consumers MUST NOT use a fallback channel to recover, since a
      malformed authoritative result may indicate an attack.  A verifier
      MUST reject the assertion.

   indeterminate  A DNS indeterminate response, an HTTPS transport
      failure (TLS failure, connection error), or an HTTPS response
      status indicating server error (5xx).  Consumers MUST NOT fall
      back to a channel that might be under a different adversary's
      control.  A verifier MUST reject the assertion unless a fresh
      cached policy is available (Section 6.8); a client SHOULD report a
      retryable error.

   Consumers MAY follow HTTPS redirects when retrieving an Issuer
   Authorization Policy, subject to a local redirect limit.  Every
   redirect target MUST use the https scheme and MUST NOT contain a
   fragment component.  The final response MUST have a successful HTTP
   status and a media type compatible with application/json.

6.5.2.  Examples

   Inline form (no HTTPS endpoint required on acme.example):

   _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=acme.example;
      issuer=https://idp.example.net;
      issuer=https://idp-backup.example.net"

   Pointer form (policy document hosted on a third party):

   _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=acme.example;
      uri=https://delegation.example.org/acme.example.json"

6.6.  Verification

   When the domain_authorized_issuer Trust Method is evaluated, the
   Resource Authorization Server MUST:

   1.  Determine the Subject Authority from the assertion's Subject
       Identifier per Section 6.2.  If the format is not registered in
       Section 9.2.3, reject the assertion.

   2.  Retrieve the Issuer Authorization Policy by applying the
       procedure in Section 6.5. no-policy, malformed, or indeterminate
       outcomes (Section 6.5.1) MUST result in rejection, except that a
       fresh cached policy MAY be used when the live retrieval is
       indeterminate.

   3.  Verify the policy's subject_authority matches the computed
       Subject Authority.  (Virtual policies satisfy this by
       construction.)

   4.  Find an entry in authorized_issuers whose issuer matches the JWT
       iss claim using case-sensitive URL string equality.

   5.  If the matched entry contains subject_identifier_formats, verify
       the Subject Identifier format of the assertion's subject is
       listed.

   6.  If valid_from or valid_until are present, verify the current time
       is within the validity window.

   Steps 1 and 2 are prerequisites; their failure causes assertion
   rejection per Section 6.5.1 and is not classified as a Trust Method
   satisfaction outcome.  The Trust Method is satisfied when steps 3
   through 6 all succeed.  On failure, the Resource Authorization Server
   MUST reject the assertion with an OAuth invalid_grant error when the
   cross-category combination rule of Section 4.2 is not met.

6.7.  Assertion Issuer Discovery

   A client that holds a subject identifier and wants to obtain an
   identity assertion can use the same records to find the authoritative
   authorization server(s) for the namespace:

   1.  Determine the Subject Authority A from the input subject
       identifier per Section 6.2.

   2.  Retrieve the Issuer Authorization Policy by applying the
       procedure in Section 6.5.  An Assertion Issuer discovery client
       always consults DNS regardless of any verifier-side dns_discovery
       flag, since that flag governs verifier behavior only.

   3.  Treat each authorized_issuers entry whose validity window
       includes the current time, and whose subject_identifier_formats
       (if present) includes the input subject's format, as a candidate.

   4.  For each candidate, resolve the authorization server's endpoints
       from the issuer identifier.  The client SHOULD attempt OAuth
       Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414] (/.well-known/oauth-
       authorization-server) first; on 404 Not Found or equivalent the
       client MAY fall back to OpenID Connect Discovery [OIDC-DISCOVERY]
       (/.well-known/openid-configuration).  For path-bearing issuer
       identifiers (for example,
       https://login.example.com/{tenant}/v2.0), the two standards
       construct the metadata URL differently: [RFC8414] inserts /.well-
       known/oauth-authorization-server between the host and the path,
       yielding https://login.example.com/.well-known/oauth-
       authorization-server/{tenant}/v2.0, while OpenID Connect
       Discovery appends /.well-known/openid-configuration after the
       path, yielding https://login.example.com/{tenant}/v2.0/.well-
       known/openid-configuration.  For such issuers the client SHOULD
       attempt both constructions in order before declaring a candidate
       unresolvable.  The client MUST verify that the discovered
       document's issuer value exactly matches the issuer identifier
       from the Issuer Authorization Policy using the comparison rules
       of [RFC8414].  A discovery transport failure or HTTP server error
       (5xx) SHOULD be treated as an indeterminate outcome for that
       candidate; the client MAY try other candidates.

   When the policy lists more than one candidate, selection is
   application-defined.  The HTTPS and DNS pointer forms preserve
   authorized_issuers array order as a Subject Authority preference
   hint; the inline DNS form preserves the first-seen order of issuer=
   directives the same way.  Interactive clients MAY present candidates
   to the end user.

   A client performing Assertion Issuer discovery does not require any
   relationship with a Resource Authorization Server.  The records stand
   on their own; the trust policy in the main body of this document
   governs only how a Resource Authorization Server later verifies
   assertions issued by the discovered issuer.

   The Assertion Issuer discovery flow defined here is intended for
   back-channel (server-to-server) consumers.  It is not privacy-
   preserving against the resolver path, the policy host, or the
   discovered Assertion Issuer: a client performing this discovery on
   behalf of a specific user exposes the user's Subject Authority to
   each of those parties, and contacting the discovered Assertion Issuer
   reveals which Resource Authorization Server (if any) the client
   intends to target.  For browser-mediated identity verification flows
   (for example, RP-side email verification), the Email Verification
   Protocol [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] provides materially stronger privacy
   properties through browser intermediation and selective-disclosure
   tokens.  Implementers building user-facing verification flows SHOULD
   use [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF] rather than the discovery flow defined here.

6.8.  Caching

   Resource Authorization Servers and clients SHOULD respect HTTP
   caching headers on HTTPS policy documents and DNS TTLs on DNS records
   used by this mechanism.  For the DNS inline form, the cache lifetime
   of the virtual policy is the minimum TTL of the recognized records
   used to construct it.  For the DNS pointer form, consumers SHOULD
   cache the DNS pointer according to DNS TTLs and the fetched HTTPS
   policy according to HTTP caching headers; the effective lifetime of a
   combined result cannot exceed either lifetime.

   A Subject Authority that revokes an authorization SHOULD publish
   updated policy with short cache lifetimes during the revocation
   window.  Because revocation latency is bounded by the cache lifetime
   of the most stale layer, Subject Authorities SHOULD publish DNS
   records and HTTPS policies with a steady-state TTL of at most 1 hour
   and SHOULD reduce the TTL further during an active revocation.
   Consumers SHOULD enforce a local maximum cache lifetime (recommended:
   24 hours, absolute) regardless of HTTP caching headers or DNS TTLs,
   to bound exposure to a stale delegation.  Consumers MAY use a fresh
   cached policy when live retrieval fails with an indeterminate
   outcome, but MUST NOT use a cached policy after its effective
   lifetime has expired.  Consumers MUST NOT continue serving from cache
   for more than 1 hour of cumulative indeterminate retrieval failures
   since the most recent successful retrieval; beyond this window, the
   consumer MUST treat the policy as indeterminate and reject assertions
   that depend on it.  This bound prevents an attacker who can sustain
   DNS or HTTPS denial of service against the policy endpoint from
   extending the effective cache lifetime indefinitely and delaying
   revocation.

6.9.  Security Considerations

   The Issuer Authorization Policy is a security-critical document.  Its
   integrity determines which Assertion Issuers can assert identities in
   the Subject Authority's namespace.

6.9.1.  Transport Integrity

   For HTTPS retrieval, the integrity of the policy depends on TLS
   server authentication of the host serving the policy.  For the inline
   DNS form, it depends entirely on DNS resolution.  For the DNS pointer
   form, it depends on DNS resolution plus TLS authentication of the
   host named by the uri= directive.

   Subject Authorities SHOULD deploy DNSSEC.  A consumer of DNS-
   published delegations without DNSSEC SHOULD use a trustworthy
   resolver path and a conservative cache maximum.  Subject Authorities
   concerned about TLS misissuance SHOULD publish CAA records
   constraining the certificate authorities permitted to issue for the
   policy-hosting domain.

   Consumers that perform DNSSEC validation SHOULD treat validation
   failure as indeterminate, not as negative-authoritative.

6.9.2.  Wildcard DNS Records

   A permissive DNS wildcard at a parent zone could answer queries for
   every subdomain.  Without an integrity check, every subdomain would
   inherit the wildcard's authorization.  The mandatory authority=A
   directive defined in Section 6.4.1 mitigates this: consumers MUST
   discard records whose authority= value does not match the queried
   Subject Authority, so a single wildcard record cannot authorize
   issuers for arbitrary subdomains.

   Subject Authorities deploying DNS records SHOULD verify that no
   broader wildcard in the parent zone could shadow their explicit
   record, and SHOULD avoid publishing wildcard TXT records at zones
   participating in this mechanism.

6.9.3.  Third-Party Policy Hosts

   The DNS pointer form lets the Subject Authority delegate policy
   hosting to a different domain.  This is intentional and enables
   managed delegation services.  Once the Subject Authority publishes a
   uri= directive, the named host is fully trusted to publish
   authorizations on its behalf.  Resource Authorization Servers MUST
   NOT impose a same-origin restriction on the uri= target beyond
   requiring https://.

   The authority= directive in the DNS record and the subject_authority
   member of the JSON document at the pointed-at URL both bind the
   policy to a specific namespace.  Both bindings are required even when
   one would seem to suffice: the DNS-side authority= is published by
   the namespace owner and attests that the policy at the uri= target is
   intended for namespace A; the JSON-side subject_authority is
   published by the policy host and declares which namespace the policy
   describes.  A consumer requires both to match because a compromise of
   either party should not allow an arbitrary namespace claim.  If only
   the JSON were checked, a compromised policy host could rewrite
   subject_authority to claim any namespace.  If only the DNS were
   checked, a compromised DNS publisher could point at any unrelated
   JSON document and have it treated as authoritative.

   The uri= directive is a long-lived trust delegation.  Once consumers
   begin caching a virtual policy that resolved through it, revocation
   of the delegation is bounded by the DNS TTL of the pointer record.
   Subject Authorities SHOULD treat the selection of a uri= target with
   the operational care applied to long-lived key delegations, and
   SHOULD reduce DNS TTLs in advance of any planned change of policy
   host.

6.9.4.  Document Authentication Limits

   This document does not authenticate the policy document beyond DNS
   and HTTPS.  A future extension MAY define a JWS-signed policy for
   deployments requiring offline-verifiable delegations or cross-origin
   mirroring.  The inline DNS form has no defined signing mechanism;
   deployments requiring cryptographic proof of intent SHOULD use HTTPS
   or the DNS pointer form pending such an extension.

6.9.5.  Scope of Authorization

   A Resource Authorization Server MUST NOT use the Issuer Authorization
   Policy to establish trust in an Assertion Issuer for subjects outside
   the matched Subject Authority.  The policy authorizes an Assertion
   Issuer only within the namespace the Subject Authority controls.

6.9.6.  Email Local-Part Is Not Authenticated by This Trust Method

   The Subject Authority Extraction for email uses only the domain part
   (registrable domain per Section 6.2).  The local-part of the email
   address is unauthenticated by the domain_authorized_issuer Trust
   Method: the Trust Method establishes only that the Assertion Issuer
   has the Subject Authority's permission to assert about emails in the
   namespace, not that any particular local-part value is correct.

   Resource Authorization Servers that link accounts using the local-
   part (for example, treating alice@example.com and Alice@example.com
   as the same user, or normalizing plus-addresses like
   alice+test@example.com to alice@example.com) inherit the trust
   assumptions of their normalization rules from the Assertion Issuer,
   not from this Trust Method.  An attacker who controls an alias
   accepted by the Assertion Issuer (for example, a plus-addressed alias
   the issuer's registration process accepted without verification) can
   obtain an assertion that the Resource Authorization Server's
   normalization rules then map to a different user.  Resource
   Authorization Servers SHOULD either disable local-part normalization
   or independently verify the local-part through a mechanism outside
   the scope of this document.

6.9.7.  Inline-Form Feature Limits

   The inline DNS form expresses only "issuer X is authorized for
   Subject Authority A."  It cannot express subject_identifier_formats,
   valid_from, or valid_until.  Subject Authorities needing any of those
   MUST use the HTTPS or DNS pointer form.

6.9.8.  Single-Issuer Multi-Tenant Identity Providers

   Some Identity Providers serve many independent tenants under a single
   issuer identifier (for example, https://accounts.google.com serving
   every Google Workspace tenant).  The tenant is distinguished by a
   top-level JWT claim such as hd rather than by the iss value.  When a
   Subject Authority lists such an Identity Provider in
   authorized_issuers, the trust grant is to the Identity Provider as a
   whole, not to a specific tenant: the framework cannot from the JWT
   alone determine which tenant minted the assertion.

   Subject Authorities authorizing such Identity Providers MUST trust
   the Identity Provider to enforce email-domain-to-tenant binding (or
   equivalent namespace ownership) at issuance, so that no tenant other
   than the Subject Authority itself can mint assertions about the
   Subject Authority's subjects.  Reputable Identity Providers require
   domain-ownership verification before tenant provisioning; Subject
   Authorities SHOULD verify that an Identity Provider performs this
   check before listing it.  Identity Providers that publish per-tenant
   issuer identifiers (for example,
   https://login.microsoftonline.com/{tenant-id}/v2.0) sidestep this
   issue because each tenant has a distinct iss value that can be listed
   individually.  Deployments needing wire-format-enforced per-tenant
   binding for single-issuer Identity Providers require a future
   extension; this document does not provide such a mechanism.

6.9.9.  Assertion Issuer Discovery Threats

   A client performing Assertion Issuer discovery is directed by the
   discovered policy to an authorization server it may not have
   previously interacted with.  A successful spoof of the Subject
   Authority's DNS (in the absence of DNSSEC) can redirect a user to an
   attacker-controlled authorization server, with the consequences of
   credential phishing.  Interactive clients SHOULD treat newly-
   discovered issuers with the scrutiny applied to any unfamiliar
   authorization server, prefer DNSSEC-validated resolution paths, and
   avoid silently following discovery results across domain boundaries
   the user did not expect.

6.9.10.  Enumeration and Query Privacy

   DNS-based lookup exposes the Subject Authority being queried to the
   resolver path.  It does not expose the full subject identifier for
   formats such as email, but it can reveal organizational relationships
   and timing.  Clients and Resource Authorization Servers SHOULD use
   privacy-preserving resolver configurations where available and SHOULD
   avoid performing discovery until it is needed for a concrete issuance
   or verification decision.

7.  Security Considerations

7.1.  Trust Policy Is Not An Issuer Allowlist

   This document intentionally allows a Resource Authorization Server to
   publish trust criteria instead of a complete issuer allowlist.
   Implementations MUST evaluate Trust Method evidence at token request
   time or according to local cache policy.

7.2.  Trust Policy Does Not Replace Assertion Validation

   A trust policy describes issuer acceptability.  It does not validate
   an assertion's signature, audience, expiration, replay protection,
   subject, or client binding.  Resource Authorization Servers MUST
   validate the assertion according to the applicable grant profile
   before issuing an access token.

7.3.  Policy Document Integrity

   The trust policy document is the input to a security decision.  A
   Resource Authorization Server MUST serve it over HTTPS with TLS
   server authentication; clients MUST reject documents retrieved over
   non-HTTPS transports or with TLS failures.

   Deployments needing integrity beyond TLS MAY serve a JWS-signed JSON
   object using application/jose+json with a signing key resolvable via
   the Resource Authorization Server's JWKS or federation entity
   configuration.  The signaling mechanism is out of scope for this
   version.

   Mirrored or cached copies MUST NOT be relied on beyond their HTTP
   cache lifetime (see Section 7.9).

7.4.  Policy Disclosure

   The trust policy can reveal which trust frameworks, registries,
   federation anchors, and Subject Identifier formats a Resource
   Authorization Server accepts.  Deployments SHOULD consider whether
   the policy URI is public, authenticated, or audience-specific.

   If an authenticated or audience-specific policy is used, Resource
   Authorization Servers SHOULD ensure that clients receive a policy
   consistent with the policy enforced at the token endpoint, otherwise
   a client can be induced to obtain assertions that cannot succeed.

7.5.  Downgrade Attacks

   A Resource Authorization Server that supports multiple Trust Methods
   SHOULD define local precedence rules.  Clients MUST NOT choose a
   weaker Trust Method if the Resource Authorization Server requires a
   stronger one for the requested subject, client, or scope.  Because
   OR-semantics apply within a single Trust Method category, Resource
   Authorization Servers MUST apply differentiated requirements at token
   request time rather than relying on the policy document alone.  The
   cross-category combination rule in Section 4.2 prevents downgrade
   across categories (for example, satisfying only an
   issuer_authentication method when a subject_namespace_authorization
   method is also applicable).

7.6.  Subject Namespace and Audience Asymmetry

   The subject_namespace_authorization Trust Method category lets a
   Subject Authority constrain which Assertion Issuers are entitled to
   assert about subjects in its namespace.  It does not constrain which
   Resource Authorization Servers an authorized Assertion Issuer may
   target.  Once an Assertion Issuer is authorized for namespace A, that
   Assertion Issuer can mint assertions about subjects in A for any
   Resource Authorization Server that lists the relevant Trust Method.

   Resource Authorization Servers enforce audience binding through the
   assertion's aud claim and the applicable grant profile.  Subject
   Authorities that need to restrict the set of audiences their
   authorized issuers may target rely on out-of-band agreements with
   those issuers; this document does not provide a wire-level mechanism
   for that restriction.  A future extension MAY add an audience-scoping
   field to the Issuer Authorization Policy document.

7.7.  Email Authority Granularity

   For email Subject Identifiers, this document uses the registrable
   domain derived from a current Public Suffix List as the Subject
   Authority.  This is a conservative choice: it prevents a party that
   controls only a subdomain from publishing Domain-Authorized Issuer
   Discovery records that override the organizational domain's issuer
   policy.  The tradeoff is that independently operated subdomains
   cannot publish separate email authority policies unless the parent
   domain delegates operational control through its own policy or the
   relevant suffix is represented in the Public Suffix List.

   Subject Authorities that require independent policy control for
   subdomains SHOULD publish separate Subject Identifiers whose
   authority extraction procedure preserves that delegation boundary, or
   use out-of-band arrangements until such a procedure is registered in
   Section 9.2.3.

7.8.  Trust Policy Enumeration

   Trust policies are typically published as unauthenticated HTTPS
   resources.  Adversaries can scrape policies across many Resource
   Authorization Servers to map an entire federation deployment
   landscape: which Resource Authorization Servers participate in which
   federations, which trust anchors are accepted, which Subject
   Identifier formats are honored.  This information aids targeted
   attacks against federation infrastructure (for example, prioritizing
   compromise of a heavily-relied-upon trust anchor).  Operators SHOULD
   treat the choice of what to publish in a trust policy as a security
   disclosure decision, not only an operational convenience, and SHOULD
   avoid revealing more relationships than necessary.

7.9.  Trust Policy Caching

   Clients and Resource Authorization Servers SHOULD respect HTTP
   caching headers on the trust policy document, subject to local
   maximum cache lifetimes.  A Resource Authorization Server changing
   its trust policy SHOULD use short cache lifetimes during migration.
   Revocation of a Trust Anchor or federation entity SHOULD NOT rely on
   cached policy expiration alone; revocation status of validated trust
   evidence MUST be checked at the cadence required by the applicable
   Trust Method specification.  Transport integrity of the policy
   document itself is addressed in Section 7.3.

7.10.  Subject Authority Matching

   A Trust Method that depends on a Subject Authority MUST define how
   that Subject Authority is determined from the assertion's Subject
   Identifier (see Section 6.2 for the determination defined by this
   document).  The determination MUST avoid wildcard, suffix, regular-
   expression, and substring matching unless explicitly specified by the
   relevant Subject Identifier format.

7.11.  Observability

   Trust policy evaluation is a security-critical decision and SHOULD be
   auditable.  Resource Authorization Servers SHOULD log, for each
   processed identity assertion, at minimum: the Assertion Issuer
   identifier; the trust policy URI and its last_updated value (or an
   equivalent cache identifier); the Trust Method identifier or
   identifiers that succeeded; the matched trust anchor or Issuer
   Authorization Policy origin where applicable; the Subject Identifier
   format used for subject-namespace evaluation; and the outcome
   (accepted or the specific rejection reason).  Log records SHOULD
   support correlation across the issuance and verification halves of an
   identity-chain transaction.

8.  Privacy Considerations

   Publishing accepted trust methods and trust anchors can reveal
   deployment relationships and security posture.  Resource
   Authorization Servers SHOULD publish only the information needed for
   clients to determine whether they can attempt issuance.  Trust policy
   documents SHOULD avoid enumerating individual issuers when trust can
   be expressed through trust anchors, federation, registries, or
   Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery.

   Assertion Issuer discovery reveals the queried Subject Authority to
   DNS resolvers and, for HTTPS policy retrieval, to the policy host.
   Clients SHOULD avoid sending full subject identifiers in policy URLs,
   query parameters, logs, or telemetry.  Resource Authorization Servers
   that verify assertions with the domain_authorized_issuer Trust Method
   SHOULD treat the Subject Authority and Assertion Issuer relationship
   as security-sensitive operational data.

9.  IANA Considerations

9.1.  Trust Policy Registrations

9.1.1.  OAuth Authorization Server Metadata Registry

   Registers identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri in the IANA "OAuth
   Authorization Server Metadata" registry:

   Metadata Name:  identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri

   Metadata Description:  HTTPS URI identifying the Resource
      Authorization Server's Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy
      document.

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

9.1.2.  OAuth Protected Resource Metadata Registry

   Registers the same parameter in the IANA "OAuth Protected Resource
   Metadata" registry [RFC9728]:

   Metadata Name:  identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri

   Metadata Description:  HTTPS URI identifying the Identity Assertion
      Issuer Trust Policy document applied by the Resource Authorization
      Server associated with this Protected Resource.

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

9.1.3.  Well-Known URI for Trust Policy

   Registers the following well-known URI in the IANA "Well-Known URIs"
   registry [RFC8615]:

   URI Suffix:  identity-assertion-trust-policy

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document

   Status:  permanent

   Related Information:  None

9.1.4.  Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Methods Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Identity
   Assertion Issuer Trust Methods" under the "OAuth Parameters" registry
   group.

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains:

   Identifier:  Short string used as the method value in a Trust Method
      object.  Identifiers MUST use the character set [a-z0-9_] and
      SHOULD describe the trust evaluation procedure.

   Categories:  One or more values from the set defined in Section 3.3.1
      (issuer_authentication, subject_namespace_authorization).  Future
      specifications MAY define additional categories via Specification
      Required.

   Parameters:  Additional JSON members defined for this Trust Method,
      with their JSON types and whether each is REQUIRED or OPTIONAL.

   Reference:  A reference to the specification defining the Trust
      Method.

   Initial entries:

   +========================+===============================+=============+==================+
   |Identifier              |Categories                     |Parameters   |Reference         |
   +========================+===============================+=============+==================+
   |openid_federation       |issuer_authentication          |trust_anchors|This document     |
   |                        |                               |(array of    |                  |
   |                        |                               |string,      |                  |
   |                        |                               |REQUIRED)    |                  |
   +------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------+------------------+
   |domain_authorized_issuer|subject_namespace_authorization|dns_discovery|This document     |
   |                        |                               |(boolean,    |                  |
   |                        |                               |OPTIONAL)    |                  |
   +------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------+------------------+
   |email_verification_dns  |subject_namespace_authorization|(none)       |This document,    |
   |                        |                               |             |[WICG-EMAIL-VERIF]|
   +------------------------+-------------------------------+-------------+------------------+

                                  Table 1

9.2.  Issuer Authorization Policy Registrations

9.2.1.  Well-Known URI for Issuer Authorization Policy

   Registers the following well-known URI in the IANA "Well-Known URIs"
   registry [RFC8615], for use by Section 6:

   URI Suffix:  oauth-issuer-policy

   Change Controller:  IETF

   Specification Document:  This document, Section 6

   Status:  permanent

   Related Information:  None

9.2.2.  Underscored DNS Node Name

   Registers the following entry in the IANA "Underscored and Globally
   Scoped DNS Node Names" registry per [RFC8552] and [RFC8553], for use
   by Section 6:

   RR Type:  TXT

   Node Name:  _oauth-issuer-policy

   Specification Document:  This document, Section 6.4.1

9.2.3.  Subject Authority Extraction Procedures Registry

   IANA is requested to establish a new registry titled "Subject
   Authority Extraction Procedures" under the "OAuth Parameters"
   registry group.

   Registration policy: Specification Required [RFC8126].

   Each registry entry contains:

   Subject Identifier Format:  The Subject Identifier format identifier
      (typically registered in the "Security Event Subject Identifier
      Formats" registry per [RFC9493]).

   Subject Authority Form:  A short description of the form taken by the
      Subject Authority for this format (for example, "DNS domain", "URL
      host").

   Extraction Procedure:  A reference to the specification text that
      defines how the Subject Authority is computed from a Subject
      Identifier of this format.

   Entries in this registry apply both to direct Subject Identifiers
   (Section 6.2) and to actor Subject Identifiers carried by the OAuth
   Actor Profile binding (Section 5.2); the extraction procedure is the
   same.  Future specifications that define new actor-profile entity
   types or Subject Identifier formats are expected to register
   additional entries here when those identifiers have a well-defined
   namespace authority.

   Initial entries:

      +===========================+================+================+
      | Subject Identifier Format | Subject        | Extraction     |
      |                           | Authority Form | Procedure      |
      +===========================+================+================+
      | email                     | DNS domain     | Section 6.2 of |
      |                           |                | this document  |
      +---------------------------+----------------+----------------+

                                  Table 2

10.  References

10.1.  Normative References

   [ACTOR-PROFILE]
              "OAuth Actor Profile for Delegation",
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-mcguinness-oauth-
              actor-profile/>.

   [ID-JAG]   "Identity Assertion JWT Authorization Grant",
              <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-oauth-
              identity-assertion-authz-grant/>.

   [OIDC-DISCOVERY]
              "OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-
              1_0.html>.

   [OIDF-FEDERATION]
              "OpenID Federation 1.0", n.d.,
              <https://openid.net/specs/openid-federation-1_0.html>.

   [RFC1035]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
              specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, DOI 10.17487/RFC1035,
              November 1987, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1035>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC5891]  Klensin, J., "Internationalized Domain Names in
              Applications (IDNA): Protocol", RFC 5891,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5891, August 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5891>.

   [RFC7519]  Jones, M., Bradley, J., and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT)", RFC 7519, DOI 10.17487/RFC7519, May 2015,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519>.

   [RFC7521]  Campbell, B., Mortimore, C., Jones, M., and Y. Goland,
              "Assertion Framework for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication
              and Authorization Grants", RFC 7521, DOI 10.17487/RFC7521,
              May 2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7521>.

   [RFC7523]  Jones, M., Campbell, B., and C. Mortimore, "JSON Web Token
              (JWT) Profile for OAuth 2.0 Client Authentication and
              Authorization Grants", RFC 7523, DOI 10.17487/RFC7523, May
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7523>.

   [RFC8126]  Cotton, M., Leiba, B., and T. Narten, "Guidelines for
              Writing an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26,
              RFC 8126, DOI 10.17487/RFC8126, June 2017,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8126>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8414]  Jones, M., Sakimura, N., and J. Bradley, "OAuth 2.0
              Authorization Server Metadata", RFC 8414,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8414, June 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414>.

   [RFC8552]  Crocker, D., "Scoped Interpretation of DNS Resource
              Records through "Underscored" Naming of Attribute Leaves",
              BCP 222, RFC 8552, DOI 10.17487/RFC8552, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8552>.

   [RFC8553]  Crocker, D., "DNS Attrleaf Changes: Fixing Specifications
              That Use Underscored Node Names", BCP 222, RFC 8553,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC8553, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8553>.

   [RFC8615]  Nottingham, M., "Well-Known Uniform Resource Identifiers
              (URIs)", RFC 8615, DOI 10.17487/RFC8615, May 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8615>.

   [RFC9493]  Backman, A., Ed., Scurtescu, M., and P. Jain, "Subject
              Identifiers for Security Event Tokens", RFC 9493,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9493, December 2023,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9493>.

   [RFC9728]  Jones, M.B., Hunt, P., and A. Parecki, "OAuth 2.0
              Protected Resource Metadata", RFC 9728,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC9728, April 2025,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9728>.

10.2.  Informative References

   [PSL]      "Public Suffix List", n.d., <https://publicsuffix.org/>.

   [RFC5234]  Crocker, D., Ed. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax
              Specifications: ABNF", STD 68, RFC 5234,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC5234, January 2008,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5234>.

   [RFC8461]  Margolis, D., Risher, M., Ramakrishnan, B., Brotman, A.,
              and J. Jones, "SMTP MTA Strict Transport Security (MTA-
              STS)", RFC 8461, DOI 10.17487/RFC8461, September 2018,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8461>.

   [RFC8555]  Barnes, R., Hoffman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J.
              Kasten, "Automatic Certificate Management Environment
              (ACME)", RFC 8555, DOI 10.17487/RFC8555, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555>.

   [RFC8659]  Hallam-Baker, P., Stradling, R., and J. Hoffman-Andrews,
              "DNS Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource
              Record", RFC 8659, DOI 10.17487/RFC8659, November 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8659>.

   [TXN-TOKENS]
              "Transaction Tokens", <https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/
              draft-ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens/>.

   [WICG-EMAIL-VERIF]
              "Email Verification Protocol", n.d.,
              <https://wicg.github.io/email-verification-protocol/>.

Appendix A.  DNS-Based Domain-Authorized Issuer End-to-End Example

   This appendix is non-normative.

   This example walks through an end-to-end flow that exercises Domain-
   Authorized Issuer Discovery in both directions: a Client uses the DNS
   records to find Alice's Assertion Issuer, then the Resource
   Authorization Server uses the same records to verify the resulting
   assertion.

A.1.  Cast

   *  *Subject Authority*, acme.example.  A small organization that owns
      its DNS but does not operate an authorization server capable of
      issuing identity assertions.

   *  *Assertion Issuer*, https://idp.example.net.  A managed
      authorization server service acme.example has contracted with.

   *  *Resource Authorization Server*, https://api.resource.example.

   *  *Client*, a backend SaaS integration.

   *  *End user*, Alice (alice@acme.example).

A.2.  Publication

   The Subject Authority publishes a single DNS TXT record:

   _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=acme.example;
      issuer=https://idp.example.net"

   No HTTPS endpoint is operated on acme.example.

   The Resource Authorization Server publishes a trust policy that
   accepts domain-authorized issuer delegations with DNS-based
   discovery:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.resource.example",
     "grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods_supported": [
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer",
         "dns_discovery": true
       }
     ]
   }

A.3.  Assertion Issuer Discovery (Client Side)

   1.  The Client holds alice@acme.example and wants to obtain an ID-
       JAG.

   2.  The Client computes the Subject Authority from the email's domain
       portion: acme.example.

   3.  The Client queries DNS TXT at _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example.
       The response is affirmative and contains one recognized record.
       The authority=acme.example directive matches, so the record is
       retained.

   4.  The record contains no uri= and one issuer= directive.  The
       Client constructs a virtual policy:

      {
        "subject_authority": "acme.example",
        "authorized_issuers": [
          { "issuer": "https://idp.example.net" }
        ]
      }

   5.  The Client applies OAuth Authorization Server Metadata [RFC8414]
       to https://idp.example.net and resolves its token endpoint.

A.4.  Issuance and Token Request

   1.  The Client authenticates Alice at https://idp.example.net and
       requests an ID-JAG with audience https://api.resource.example
       carrying Alice's email:

      {
        "iss": "https://idp.example.net",
        "aud": "https://api.resource.example",
        "exp": 1780166400,
        "iat": 1780166100,
        "jti": "5a17...",
        "sub": "user-9241ab",
        "email": "alice@acme.example",
        "email_verified": true
      }

   2.  The Client posts to the Resource Authorization Server's token
       endpoint with private_key_jwt client authentication:

      POST /token HTTP/1.1
      Host: api.resource.example
      Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

      grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer
      &assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIs...
      &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer
      &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...

A.5.  Verification (Resource Authorization Server Side)

   1.  The Resource Authorization Server validates the ID-JAG: signature
       (via https://idp.example.net/.well-known/openid-configuration
       JWKS), aud, exp, iat, replay protection.

   2.  The Resource Authorization Server evaluates the
       domain_authorized_issuer Trust Method.

       a.  It extracts the Subject Authority from the top-level email
       claim (with email_verified=true): acme.example.

       b.  Because the trust policy has dns_discovery: true, the
       Resource Authorization Server queries DNS TXT at _oauth-issuer-
       policy.acme.example.  The same record returned to the Client is
       returned here.

       c.  The authority=acme.example directive matches.  No uri= is
       present.  The Resource Authorization Server constructs the same
       virtual policy the Client used in step 4.

       d.  The ID-JAG iss value https://idp.example.net matches the
       single authorized_issuers[0].issuer.  Verification succeeds.

   3.  The Resource Authorization Server validates private_key_jwt, then
       issues an access token in the response body.

A.6.  Migration Variant: Pointer Form

   If acme.example later wants to express validity windows, format
   restrictions, or multiple issuers with ordering, it can switch to the
   pointer form without changing any consumer behavior:

   _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=acme.example;
      uri=https://delegation.example.org/acme.example.json"

   and publish the richer JSON document at the pointed-at URL:

   {
     "subject_authority": "acme.example",
     "authorized_issuers": [
       {
         "issuer": "https://idp.example.net",
         "subject_identifier_formats": ["email"],
         "valid_until": "2027-05-30T00:00:00Z"
       },
       {
         "issuer": "https://idp-backup.example.net",
         "subject_identifier_formats": ["email"]
       }
     ],
     "last_updated": "2026-05-29T00:00:00Z"
   }

   Clients and Resource Authorization Servers transparently follow the
   uri= directive and consume the JSON document.  No software changes
   are required at either consumer.

A.7.  Failure Variants

   *  A DNS SERVFAIL at _oauth-issuer-policy.acme.example is classified
      as indeterminate (Section 6.5.1).  The Resource Authorization
      Server does not fall back to https://acme.example/.well-known/
      oauth-issuer-policy; it returns invalid_grant.

   *  A wildcard record at *.example covering acme.example would have to
      carry authority=acme.example to be accepted.  A wildcard with a
      different authority= is discarded.

   *  If acme.example rotates its authorized Assertion Issuer and the
      Client has a cached virtual policy, the Client will still attempt
      the old issuer until its cache expires.  Subject Authorities
      SHOULD use short DNS TTLs during rotation; consumers SHOULD
      enforce a local cache ceiling (Section 6.8).

Appendix B.  Agent Platform IdP End-to-End Example

   This appendix is non-normative.

   This example shows how the framework prevents an unauthorized
   provider from impersonating users in a customer's email namespace.
   The protection rests on a single deliberate choice by the customer:
   publishing an Issuer Authorization Policy that lists the specific
   agent platforms permitted to issue identity assertions about its
   users.  Without that authorization, no provider — however well-known
   elsewhere — can mint an accepted ID-JAG for the namespace.

B.1.  Cast

   *  *Customer*, example.com.  Owns the email domain of its users.
      Decides which agent platforms are authorized to act as Assertion
      Issuers for its users.

   *  *Customer's Primary IdP*, https://idp.example.com.  Used by the
      agent platform to federate user authentication.  Mentioned only to
      describe the user-side SSO step; not the ID-JAG issuer and not
      part of the verification path at the tool provider.

   *  *Agent Platform*, https://agentprovider.example.  Acts as a
      downstream identity provider for tools.  Authenticates users via
      federated SSO from their primary IdP, then mints ID-JAGs with iss
      = https://agentprovider.example carrying the user's identity.

   *  *Tool Provider*, https://toolprovider.example.  Acts as the
      Resource Authorization Server.  Verifies presented ID-JAGs against
      its trust policy and issues access tokens.

   *  *End user*, Alice (alice@example.com).

B.2.  Publication

   The customer publishes an Issuer Authorization Policy authorizing
   exactly the providers it has chosen to trust as Assertion Issuers for
   its users:

   _oauth-issuer-policy.example.com.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=example.com;
      issuer=https://agentprovider.example"

   This is the gatekeeping mechanism.  The customer's domain owner is
   the only party that can publish this record.  Any provider not listed
   cannot be authorized for example.com subjects, regardless of how
   well-known the provider is in unrelated contexts.

   The tool provider publishes a Trust Policy that consults Domain-
   Authorized Issuer Discovery:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://toolprovider.example",
     "grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods_supported": [
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer",
         "dns_discovery": true
       }
     ]
   }

B.3.  User-Side SSO (Prerequisite, Out of Scope)

   Before any ID-JAG is minted, Alice establishes a session at the agent
   platform.  The exact mechanism is out of scope; a typical flow:

   1.  Alice opens the agent platform's interface.

   2.  The agent platform performs federated sign-in to
       https://idp.example.com per OpenID Connect.

   3.  Alice authenticates at idp.example.com; an OIDC ID Token is
       returned to the agent platform.

   4.  The agent platform validates the ID Token, learns Alice's
       identity (alice@example.com), and creates a session.

   After this step, agentprovider.example knows Alice's organizational
   identity.  The primary IdP (idp.example.com) plays no further role at
   the tool provider; the agent platform relies on its own keys to mint
   subsequent ID-JAGs.

B.4.  Flow

   1.  Within Alice's session, the agent platform mints an ID-JAG
       identifying Alice, with audience https://toolprovider.example
       (decoded payload, illustrative):

      {
        "iss": "https://agentprovider.example",
        "aud": "https://toolprovider.example",
        "exp": 1780166400,
        "iat": 1780166100,
        "jti": "b9c1...",
        "sub": "user-3f81a2",
        "email": "alice@example.com",
        "email_verified": true
      }

   2.  The agent platform (as the OAuth client) posts the ID-JAG to the
       tool provider's token endpoint with private_key_jwt client
       authentication (governed by the ID-JAG grant profile; outside the
       trust framework's scope):

      POST /token HTTP/1.1
      Host: toolprovider.example
      Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

      grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer
      &assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIs...
      &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer
      &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...

   3.  The tool provider validates the ID-JAG: signature (key resolved
       via https://agentprovider.example/.well-known/oauth-
       authorization-server JWKS), aud, exp, iat, replay protection.

   4.  The tool provider evaluates the trust policy's
       subject_namespace_authorization category against the assertion's
       subject (Section 4.2):

       a.  Extracts the Subject Authority from the assertion's email
       attribution.  The ID-JAG carries email = "alice@example.com" with
       email_verified = true at top level; per Section 6.2, the
       registrable domain of alice@example.com is example.com.

       b.  Queries _oauth-issuer-policy.example.com.  The record is
       affirmative, authority=example.com matches, and the virtual
       policy lists https://agentprovider.example as an authorized
       Assertion Issuer.

       c.  The JWT iss (https://agentprovider.example) matches the
       authorized_issuers entry.  The Trust Method is satisfied.

   5.  The tool provider's client authentication and OAuth client
       identifier resolution proceed per the grant profile and the tool
       provider's OAuth configuration.  Trust framework evaluation does
       not govern them.

   6.  Verification succeeds.  The tool provider issues an access token
       scoped according to its local policy.

B.5.  What This Protects Against

   The key threat is *issuer impersonation*: a provider other than the
   one the customer authorized attempts to mint an ID-JAG claiming a
   user in the customer's namespace.

   Suppose an unrelated provider attacker.example operates its own
   authorization server and mints an assertion:

   {
     "iss": "https://attacker.example",
     "aud": "https://toolprovider.example",
     "email": "alice@example.com",
     "email_verified": true,
     "exp": 1780166400,
     "iat": 1780166100,
     "jti": "c21f...",
     "sub": "user-58c1bd"
   }

   The signature validates (the assertion is signed by
   attacker.example's own key, which is resolvable at
   https://attacker.example/.well-known/oauth-authorization-server).
   The aud is correct.  The token superficially names Alice.

   The tool provider's Trust Method evaluation rejects it nonetheless:

   *  Subject Authority extracted from the assertion's email
      attribution: example.com.

   *  DNS lookup at _oauth-issuer-policy.example.com returns the
      customer's policy.

   *  The JWT iss (https://attacker.example) is NOT in
      authorized_issuers (which lists only
      https://agentprovider.example).

   *  The Trust Method is not satisfied for any
      subject_namespace_authorization method in the policy.

   *  The tool provider rejects with OAuth invalid_grant.

   Note that the attacker setting email_verified: true on its own
   assertion has no force here; trust comes from the iss-vs-policy
   check, not from the assertion's self-claim.  The Subject Authority is
   computed from the email's domain regardless of the email_verified
   value an unauthorized issuer chooses to assert.

   attacker.example has no path to impersonate alice@example.com unless
   example.com's DNS publisher adds them to the Issuer Authorization
   Policy.  The customer is the sole gatekeeper.

B.6.  Additional Failure Variants

   *  If the customer's DNS record is missing or unreachable, the Trust
      Method outcome is no-policy or indeterminate per Section 6.5.1 and
      the tool provider rejects the assertion.  An attacker cannot
      benefit from disabling the lookup; fail-closed semantics ensure
      rejection rather than acceptance.

   *  If example.com rotates its authorized agent platform (replaces
      agentprovider.example with a different provider in the policy),
      assertions from the old provider are rejected at the next cache
      refresh per Section 6.8.

B.7.  Extensions

   *  The customer might prefer to grant trust transitively via
      federation rather than authorize each agent platform directly.  In
      that case the tool provider's trust policy lists openid_federation
      as an issuer_authentication method with a trust anchor that
      recognizes agentprovider.example as a federated entity.  The
      cross-category combination rule of Section 4.2 still requires a
      subject_namespace_authorization method to be satisfied for
      namespace-bound subjects; federation membership alone does not
      establish authority over the customer's namespace.

   *  If the deployment additionally needs to identify the specific
      agent instance (for audit, scoping, or downstream attribution),
      the agent platform MAY add an act object to the ID-JAG identifying
      the agent instance.  The OAuth Actor Profile binding (Section 5.2)
      governs how a Resource Authorization Server interprets such an act
      object.  Trust evaluation of the agent's identity by this
      framework's subject_namespace_authorization category applies only
      when the actor's subject identifier is in a format with a
      registered Subject Authority Extraction Procedure (Section 9.2.3);
      opaque agent-instance identifiers are typically not in such a
      format and are subject to the agent platform's authorization-time
      logic and the tool provider's local policy.

Appendix C.  OpenID Federation End-to-End Example

   This appendix is non-normative.

   This example walks through an end-to-end flow in which a Resource
   Authorization Server uses OpenID Federation to authenticate the
   Assertion Issuer and Domain-Authorized Issuer Discovery to verify
   that the Assertion Issuer is authorized for Alice's email namespace.

C.1.  Cast

   *  *Resource Authorization Server*, https://api.resource.example.
      Accepts ID-JAGs from Assertion Issuers that prove federation
      membership under the trust anchor below and are authorized by the
      asserted subject's namespace.

   *  *Federation Trust Anchor*, https://federation.example.org.  Runs
      an OpenID Federation deployment that issues Subordinate Statements
      about intermediates and leaf entities.

   *  *Assertion Issuer*, https://idp.partner.example.  A federation
      leaf entity registered as an OpenID provider.  Holds an Entity
      Configuration at https://idp.partner.example/.well-known/openid-
      federation.

   *  *Client*, an enterprise SaaS application.  Authenticates to the
      Resource Authorization Server's token endpoint with
      private_key_jwt.

   *  *End user*, Alice (alice@partner.example).

C.2.  Publication

   The Resource Authorization Server publishes authorization server
   metadata:

   {
     "issuer": "https://api.resource.example",
     "token_endpoint": "https://api.resource.example/token",
     "grant_types_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer"
     ],
     "authorization_grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri":
       "https://api.resource.example/.well-known/identity-assertion-trust-policy"
   }

   It publishes a trust policy listing one Trust Method from each
   category: OpenID Federation for issuer authentication and Domain-
   Authorized Issuer Discovery for subject-namespace authorization:

   {
     "resource_authorization_server": "https://api.resource.example",
     "grant_profiles_supported": [
       "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-profile:id-jag"
     ],
     "subject_identifier_formats_supported": ["email"],
     "issuer_trust_methods_supported": [
       {
         "method": "openid_federation",
         "trust_anchors": ["https://federation.example.org"]
       },
       {
         "method": "domain_authorized_issuer",
         "dns_discovery": true
       }
     ]
   }

   The Assertion Issuer publishes a federation Entity Configuration at
   https://idp.partner.example/.well-known/openid-federation (decoded
   payload, illustrative):

   {
     "iss": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "sub": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "iat": 1780166100,
     "exp": 1780252500,
     "authority_hints": ["https://federation.example.org"],
     "metadata": {
       "openid_provider": {
         "issuer": "https://idp.partner.example",
         "jwks_uri": "https://idp.partner.example/jwks"
       }
     }
   }

   The Federation Trust Anchor has previously issued a Subordinate
   Statement listing https://idp.partner.example as an active leaf with
   openid_provider entity type (decoded payload, illustrative):

   {
     "iss": "https://federation.example.org",
     "sub": "https://idp.partner.example",
     "iat": 1780166100,
     "exp": 1782758100,
     "metadata_policy": {
       "openid_provider": {}
     }
   }

   The Subject Authority partner.example publishes an inline DNS policy
   authorizing the federated Assertion Issuer:

   _oauth-issuer-policy.partner.example.  IN  TXT
     "v=oauth-issuer-policy1;
      authority=partner.example;
      issuer=https://idp.partner.example"

C.3.  Flow

   1.  The Client fetches authorization server metadata for the Resource
       Authorization Server and reads
       authorization_grant_profiles_supported; ID-JAG is supported.  The
       Client fetches the trust policy URL.

   2.  The Client sees that the policy requires an issuer_authentication
       method and a subject_namespace_authorization method.  It selects
       https://idp.partner.example, which it knows to be federated under
       https://federation.example.org and authorized by partner.example
       for email subjects.

   3.  The Client authenticates Alice at idp.partner.example (out of
       scope for this document).  It then requests an ID-JAG with
       audience https://api.resource.example and Alice's email.

   4.  The Assertion Issuer returns the ID-JAG (decoded payload,
       illustrative):

      {
        "iss": "https://idp.partner.example",
        "aud": "https://api.resource.example",
        "exp": 1780166400,
        "iat": 1780166100,
        "jti": "8e9b...",
        "sub": "user-7c2a4f",
        "email": "alice@partner.example",
        "email_verified": true
      }

   5.  The Client posts to the Resource Authorization Server token
       endpoint using private_key_jwt:

      POST /token HTTP/1.1
      Host: api.resource.example
      Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

      grant_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:jwt-bearer
      &assertion=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIs...
      &client_assertion_type=urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-bearer
      &client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIs...

   6.  The Resource Authorization Server validates the ID-JAG:
       signature, aud, exp, iat, replay protection.  The signing key is
       resolved via the Assertion Issuer's federation Entity
       Configuration.

   7.  The Resource Authorization Server evaluates
       issuer_trust_methods_supported.  For the issuer_authentication
       category, it evaluates openid_federation.  It builds a trust
       chain by walking authority_hints from https://idp.partner.example
       upward, collecting Subordinate Statements, and terminating at
       https://federation.example.org.  The terminal trust anchor
       matches the listed trust_anchors entry.  Because the policy also
       lists a subject_namespace_authorization method, the cross-
       category combination rule in Section 4.2 requires that category
       to be satisfied as well; step 8 supplies the additional evidence.

   8.  For the subject_namespace_authorization category, the Resource
       Authorization Server extracts partner.example from the
       assertion's top-level email claim (with email_verified=true),
       retrieves the Issuer Authorization Policy from _oauth-issuer-
       policy.partner.example, and verifies that
       https://idp.partner.example appears in authorized_issuers.

   9.  Verification succeeds.  The Resource Authorization Server issues
       an access token in the response body.  Client authentication
       (private_key_jwt) is handled by the ID-JAG grant profile and the
       underlying OAuth client-authentication mechanism; trust framework
       evaluation does not govern it.

C.4.  Failure Variants

   *  If the Assertion Issuer's Entity Configuration is unreachable or
      the federation chain does not terminate at
      https://federation.example.org, the Resource Authorization Server
      returns invalid_grant.

   *  If a different trust anchor appears in the chain but the policy
      lists only https://federation.example.org, the Resource
      Authorization Server returns invalid_grant.

   *  If partner.example does not authorize https://idp.partner.example
      in its Issuer Authorization Policy, the Resource Authorization
      Server returns invalid_grant.

   *  If the federation chain validates but the client's
      client_assertion is not signed by a registered key (for example
      because of unfinished key rotation), the Resource Authorization
      Server returns invalid_client.  This is a client-authentication
      failure governed by the grant profile and OAuth client-
      authentication mechanisms, not by the trust framework; it is
      included here only to show how trust-framework outcomes interleave
      with other token-endpoint errors.

Appendix D.  Related Token Contexts

   This appendix is non-normative.

   The trust framework's mechanics — Trust Method evaluation, Issuer
   Authorization Policy lookup, Subject Authority extraction — apply to
   several token contexts beyond identity assertion JWT authorization
   grants.  This appendix sketches how the same machinery can be applied
   to two related contexts.

D.1.  Transaction Tokens

   Transaction Tokens [TXN-TOKENS] carry authorization context across
   calls in an identity-chained transaction.  A txn-token typically
   includes an act object identifying the actor that initiated the chain
   together with the subject's identity claims.

   A receiver verifying a txn-token applies:

   *  The OAuth Actor Profile binding (Section 5.2) when the txn-token
      carries an act object.

   *  The Resource Authorization Server Processing rules (Section 4.2)
      for evaluating the txn-token issuer's authority over the carried
      subject.

   A deployment using txn-tokens MAY list a txn-token profile identifier
   in the trust policy's grant_profiles_supported so that a single trust
   policy document can scope itself to both grant-endpoint and txn-token
   verification.

D.2.  JWT Access Token Verification

   A resource server that verifies JWT access tokens carrying identity
   claims faces the same issuer-trust questions as a Resource
   Authorization Server: is the token's iss an authentic issuer, and is
   it entitled to assert the identity claims the token carries about the
   subject?

   For this informal binding, the JWT access token's issuing
   authorization server (identified by the token's iss claim) is treated
   as the Assertion Issuer; Trust Method evaluation proceeds against
   this identifier as it would against the iss of an identity assertion.

   A resource server MAY:

   1.  Reuse the trust policy published by its associated authorization
       server, when an exclusive AS-RS pairing exists.

   2.  Publish its own Identity Assertion Issuer Trust Policy by
       including the identity_assertion_trust_policy_uri member in its
       Protected Resource Metadata [RFC9728].  The policy's
       resource_authorization_server member names the authorization
       server whose tokens this particular policy governs - not the
       publisher of the policy.  A resource server that accepts tokens
       from multiple authorization servers MAY publish multiple policy
       documents, each naming a different resource_authorization_server.

   When the JWT access token carries a subject identifier recognized by
   a registered Subject Authority Extraction Procedure (Section 9.2.3) —
   for example, top-level email/email_verified claims — the resource
   server applies the trust policy as described in Section 4.2, with the
   JWT access token in place of an identity assertion JWT.

Appendix E.  Document History

   This appendix is non-normative and will be removed before
   publication.

   -00

   *  initial draft

Author's Address

   Karl McGuinness
   Independent
   Email: public@karlmcguinness.com
